"The Girl in Suite 2103"
Episode 2x06
Written By: Christopher Ambrose
Directed by: Karen Gaviola
Transcribed by: Elo
Disclaimer: The characters, plotlines, quotes, etc. included here are owned by Hart Hanson, all rights reserved. This transcript is not authorized or endorsed by Hart Hanson or Fox.
(Cut to inside an elevator car. Booth and Brennan are standing inside the elevator as typical elevator music is playing in the background. Booth is swaying to the music a bit as Brennan looks bored.)
BRENNAN: (looking at Booth) You like this song?
BOOTH: (turning to Brennan) Nobody likes this song.
BRENNAN: Well, you're dancing to it.
BOOTH: Maybe swaying a little (hums).
BRENNAN: And humming.
BOOTH: Bones, you know, it's just something that you don in the elevator.
BRENNAN: Buddhists say that if we can lose ourselves in the moment without distraction or desire, we experience truth.
BOOTH: Why can't you just hum like a normal, happy person?
(Elevator door opens and reveals a room that is severely damaged by an expl*si*n.)
BRENNAN: (putting on gloves) Not really in the mood.
BOOTH: (following Brennan out of the elevator) Ok, here we go.
(Various shots of the inside of the room are shown. There are several people milling around looking at the remains and debris etc. Radswell, who is also a little person, approaches them.)
RADSWELL: Special Agent Booth, and I'm gonna assume this is Dr. Brennan?
BOOTH: (in a weary tone) Bones, Alex Radswell, he's, uh, from State Department.
BRENNAN: Why'd you say it like that?
RADSWELL: Booth believes the State Department was put on Earth to protect bad guys from the FBI.
BRENNAN: (shining her flashlight around) I count three dead?
RADSWELL: Four. There's one behind the bar. Already ID'd as the bartender. This was a cocktail party after a conference on drug trafficking in South America. The keynote speaker was Colombian judicial attaché Dolores Ramos.
BRENNAN: Did she survive?
RADSWELL: Minor burns, smoke inhalation. She'll be fine. Luck of the draw.
BRENNAN: (to Booth) You seem uncomfortable. Does his size make you self-conscious? (pointing to Radswell)
BOOTH: Bones.
BRENNAN: It's a condition-skeletal dysplasia. Pseudoachondroplasia or S.E.D. congenita?
BOOTH: Bones!
BRENNAN: What?
RADSWELL: Dr. Brennan, I can see that you're a straightforward person and as much as I appreciate that quality, what you're asking me is neither your business nor relevant.
BRENNAN: But it's my business because I'm a forensic anthropologist. But, you're right, it's not relevant.
BOOTH: So, what happened here? b*mb?
RADSWELL: (pointing into the room) The blast came from the room next door. Your people are working on the cause right now.
CAM: (entering from the other room) I'm betting Colombian drug types, they just love blowing people up.
RADSWELL: Before she was attached to the embassy, Dolores Ramos was a prosecutor in Bogota. She had plenty of enemies in the cartels.
BOOTH: You ID anyone else beside the bartender?
RADSWELL: Hector Madure, (points to body) Chief of police from Quito, Ecuador.
CAM: (holding up a photo) I brought you in to confirm the identity of his wife. She's the extra crispy one.
(Brennan heads over to the body.)
RADSWELL: (points to another remain) Father Gabriel Ruiz, he ran a drug program for kids in Bogota.
BOOTH: Well, you know, it's a big score for the drug cartels. Anyone of these people, you know, make a good target.
RADSWELL: (leaving) I'm gonna check on the conditions of the survivors, you need anything, just holler.
BOOTH: Will do.
(Brennan is comparing the skeleton with a photo of the woman she was given.)
BOOTH: What do you got, Bones?
BRENNAN: Female, mid 40s. Bone structure fits this picture of Constanza Madure pretty closely. Dental work will confirm. (looks around the body) The debris embedded in the remains suggests an expl*si*n.
BOOTH: So does that giant hole in the wall there.
BRENNAN: (looks at something on the ground nearby) Part of the navicular. Top of the left foot...not hers. There are other bone shards scattered here.
BOOTH: Ooooh, you mean like, extra bits?
BRENNAN: Yes. These are fragmented from the blast. (Looks at a wall) Ah, there's bone fragments here in the wall. I think someone was standing in this room very close to the b*mb when it went off.
BOOTH: Well, it had to be the b*mb, right? Mean, talk about instant karma.
BRENNAN: The question is, where are the rest of his remains?
BOOTH: Vaporized maybe.
BRENNAN: Unlikely. (walks over and crouches down somewhere) Oh, huh.
BOOTH: What do you got?
BRENNAN: An external occipital protuberance. Fissures indicate thermal detachment. It's the back of a human skull.
BOOTH: (calling out) Cam, any of your bodies missing a protuberance?
CAM: No, all of these remains are fully intact.
BOOTH: Fully intact.
CAM: Uh huh BRENNAN: (stands up and shines her flashlight at the chandelier hanging from the ceiling, where a skeleton can be seen) Not all of them.
BOOTH: Oh.
OPENING CREDITS
(Cut to the Medico-Lab. Booth, Brennan and Cam are waling out of her Brennan's office and discussing the case.)
BOOTH: Arson investigators say that the expl*si*n definitely originated in the room next to the cocktail party.
CAM: Who was checked in there?
BOOTH: Nobody, it was being renovated.
BRENNAN: Well, paint, combustibles-they would've added to the force of the fire and expl*si*n.
BOOTH: So, maybe the b*mb got caught by his own expl*si*n.
BRENNAN: Her own expl*si*n.
BOOTH: Wait, the b*mb was a female?
BRENNAN: Sciatic notch doesn't lie.
CAM: Neither does the vagina.
BOOTH: Whoa, uh, wait a minute. Whoa, wait a minute. You're saying this skull was so hot that it explodes, but the girlie parts are still intact?
CAM: (walking on to the platform with Brennan) She was thrown into that chandelier above the fire. The deep tissue remained intact.
BOOTH: Thank you for that, I'll-(turns to leave).
(Brennan and Cam join Hodgins and Zack on the platform, examining the remains.)
HODGINS: Particulates embedded in the remains are a combination of glass, wood splinters, plaster and drywall.
ZACK: The b*mb is Caucasian, 5 feet 4, late teens/early 20s. Still no ID.
CAM: The hair sample makes her a bleach-bottle blonde.
ZACK: Ankylosis in the right trochlea and capitulum and scaphoid.
BRENNAN: Occupational markers from carrying a tray.
HODGINS: Mad b*mb assassin-waitress?
CAM: She might not have had a choice.
BRENNAN: I don't understand.
CAM: The cartels force people to do what they want. Your waitress refuses, the cartel wipes out her family.
HODGINS: I'm running chemiluminescence tests now to get a chemical fingerprint and then chromatography to see what triggered the blast.
(Hodgins leaves the platform, but not before giving Angela a big smile as she approaches the rest of the group.)
ANGELA: I scanned the skull and reconstructed a face.
(She walks over to a computer terminal and pulls up the images.)
CAM: Send it over to Booth. If drugs are involved, maybe she has a record.
ANGELA: Yeah, I already did that.
CAM: Listen, people, please. Don't be sending stuff without informing me first.
BRENNAN: But you wanted her to send it, I heard you.
CAM: But not without first-(pauses) just run everything by me first, ok? Every circus needs a ringmaster. In this circus, it's me.
(Cam leaves. Angela and Brennan exchange a look of disbelief.)
ANGELA: (whispers) Yeah.
(Cut to FBI Building. Booth, Brennan and Radswell are getting off the elevator.)
RADSWELL: All we ask at the State Department is that you treat this woman with the respect she is due as a friend of this country.
BOOTH: I know how to question the witness.
RADSWELL: I am here at the request of the Colombian ambassador, Judge Ramos and the State Department.
BRENNAN: Well, that's disingenuous. What are the chances that all three would ask you separately? (places hands on her hip)
RADSWELL: Why are you being so confrontational?
BRENNAN: You're used to people deferring to you because of your size. It's a normal response that you take advantage of. I don't like it.
BOOTH: Here we go.
BRENNAN: Well, see? (to Booth) Even you don't want to say anything to hurt his tiny feelings. (to Radswell) I don't mean that your feelings are tiny, I mean that you have feelings about being tiny.
RADSWELL: The ramifications and repercussions of impeded access will compromise accommodative responses detrimental to your unabated participation in our shared endeavours.
(Confused look on Brennan's face.)
BOOTH: That's State Department speak. We don't do it his way, we'll get fired.
BRENNAN: See? If a regular-sized person tried to intimidate you, you'd threaten to kick him through the window. But because in his case it's an actual physical possibility-
BOOTH: Let's just question the judge.
RADSWELL: Thank you.
BOOTH: You're welcome.
(They walk towards the conference room.)
BOOTH: (turning to Brennan) That was a nice moment-me translating for you.
(Cut to inside the FBI conference room. Radswell is sitting at the head of the table with Booth/Brennan on one side and Judge Dolores Ramos and her husband Juan on the other.)
DOLORES: I was speaking with Father Ruiz when the b*mb went off. I believe his body protected me from the blast.
JUAN: I was barely touched. Father Ruiz was a very close friend of ours.
BOOTH: (taking a photo from a file in front of him) Did you see this woman at the hospitality suite at the time of the expl*si*n?
(pushes Angela's rendering across the table.)
DOLORES: No.
BRENNAN: You're sure? She wasn't serving drinks, anything like that?
JUAN: The service staff were all from the embassy. Who is she?
RADSWELL: She may have been the b*mb.
BOOTH: Mr. Radswell.
RADSWELL: The State Department recognizes Judge Ramos as a great friend to this country and has charged me with keeping her apprised of this investigation.
BOOTH: Did you or anyone receive any threats at the embassy before the conference?
DOLORES: We are always receiving threats. It's a fact of life for us.
JUAN: The government provides my wife and our family with bodyguards. We have lost loved ones in the past.
DOLORES: A daughter, eight years ago.
BOOTH: Our condolences.
JUAN: Do you believe this woman to be connected to the cartels?
BRENNAN: We haven't identified her yet.
RADSWELL: Perhaps, Judge Ramos your friends in Colombian law enforcement could be of help.
DOLORES: Yes, of course. Anything to aid the investigation.
BOOTH: Thank you, Judge Ramos. That's all for now.
(Cut to Lab. Hodgins is entering Angela's office with his camera.)
HODGINS: Hey, can you upload the pictures from this camera?
ANGELA: Am I going to regret it?
HODGINS: What kind of guy do you think I am?
ANGELA: (takes camera and walks over to her computer) It's just that men sometimes think things are funny that women merely find gross.
HODGINS: (sitting down next to Angela) They're pictures of the hotel room. I went there to collect some samples. (Pictures show up on screen) Yeah, see...the heat blast deposited the first layer of residue on the walls-hydrocarbons.
ANGELA: The first layer?
HODGINS: Yep, lawyer two...I had to use an electron capture detector to identify. It was toluene and benzene-oxidized paint-which just exploded from the cans.
ANGELA: The expl*si*n was a two-parter?
HODGINS: More accurately a fire, then an expl*si*n. But get this...I found a patch of wall with only oxidized paint on it. Basically a shadow. See, something was between the wall and the fire, then was gone when the expl*si*n occurred. Think you can figure out what it was?
ANGELA: I can try.
HODGINS: (exchange looks with Angela) Cool. I also found these blobs of melted something (takes out tube).
ANGELA: Yeah, not my department. You're just trying to prolong this conversation.
(They both smile as Hodgins leaves.)
(Cut to platform. Zack and Cam approach the remains.)
ZACK: What do you want to know?
CAM: Everything.
ZACK: The expl*si*n shifted the placement of the teeth in the maxilla and mandible. (pointing to computer screen) I've repositioned them so that we can match the dentals. The computer is looking now. (crosses arms) Why do you suddenly want to know everything?
CAM: I think there's a tendency here for each of us to work too independently.
ZACK: My closest acquaintance outside work is a woman I know who's a performance artist. Last month, she enclosed herself in a plastic box with six rabbits. It went over quite well, perhaps you've heard of her?
CAM: Zack, when I said everything, I meant just the case.
(Computer beeps.)
ZACK: (looking at the screen) Lisa Winokur.
CAM: Yep, never heard of her.
ZACK: Me neither.
CAM: Isn't she the rabbit woman?
ZACK: No. Lisa Winokur's the woman in the chandelier.
CAM: Oh, good. I'll let Booth know you ID'd the v*ctim.
ZACK: If you'd like to know anything else-
CAM: I think I'm up to speed for now, but thanks.
(Cam leaves Zack.)
(Cut to a front porch. Booth is talking to Jill Winokur.)
JILL: I saw about the expl*si*n on the news. But Lisa wasn't supposed to be working at the hotel last night. So I never thought she'd be one of the casualties.
BOOTH: How long had your daughter been working there?
JILL: Off and on, a couple of years. Waitressing when she needed money. Tomorrow's her birthday, I ordered the cake (sobs). I thought that she was spending the night out with friends-that's why she didn't come home.
BOOTH: She spend many nights away from home?
JILL: My daughter was a very attractive young woman living with her mother. She had boyfriends, and, yeah, sometimes she didn't come home.
BOOTH: Did she have, uh-um, anyone special in her life lately?
JILL: Yeah, but I-I never met him. I don't know his name.
BOOTH: Is there anything you can tell me about him?
JILL: Oh, he was foreign. Puerto Rican maybe? She called him "Senor Hot Stuff". Maybe that was a joke...she said he was rich. Lisa was a really sweet girl (cries.)
(Cut to Angela's office. She is showing Hodgins something on her computer.)
ANGELA: (pointing to screen) The fire started approximately here, which means that whatever cast your reverse shadow was positioned here.
HODGINS: What cast the shadow?
ANGELA: Well, I manipulated the images you gave in order to figure out the shape of the silhouette. The dark areas are where there was both blowback residue from the fire and the deposits of oxidized paint left by the expl*si*n. By going in as far as individual pixels, I was able to find the area where there was only paint residue.
HODGINS: That's a person.
ANGELA: Yeah. Given the angles and the distance from the wall, I'd say it's somebody about six feet tall.
HODGINS: And Lisa Winokur was only 5 foot 4.
ANGELA: Which means whoever this was got out before the actual expl*si*n occurred.
HODGINS: (looking at Angela intently) Oh, I could kiss you.
ANGELA: That would require permission, which I deny.
HODGINS: I'll tell Booth that the b*mb is alive and is six feet tall.
(Hodgins gets up to leave, as Cam arrives.)
CAM: You'll tell who what? (Hodgins leaves without stopping) There's a loop people, and I'm in it. Not only am I in it, I'm the big curvy part.
(Cut to a bar, Booth and Brennan are interviewing Denise, a waitress.)
DENISE: Lisa wasn't scheduled to work last night. She just came in on her own as a customer, picked up a guy.
BOOTH: You know anything about him?
DENISE: Looked Hispanic. That's not P.C. to say, but you want details, right?
BOOTH: Um hmm.
DENISE: And it looked like he had money too.
BOOTH: How tall was he?
DENISE: I don't know. He was sitting when I saw him. Look, Lisa was a good kid, but she used to scope the place for rich guys.
BRENNAN: So she was a prostitute?
DENISE: What? No, no. She was just like any of us.
BOOTH: Looking for a husband, right?
DENISE: This guy last night-she zoned in on him real hard. Took him upstairs, you know, for privacy.
BOOTH: Upstairs where?
DENISE: The room that was being renovated. The-the one that caught on fire. I mean, it's against the rules, but we've all done it.
BOOTH: Right (chuckles).
(Brennan gives a look that she's not amused at the flirting nature between the two.)
DENISE: I mean, why else work in a high-class place like this, right?
BOOTH: Yeah.
BRENNAN: Someone's trying to flag you down.
DENISE: (turns to look behind her) Oh.
BARTENDER: Denise, Denise!
DENISE: Excuse me (turns away).
BOOTH: Looks like it's possible that Lisa went upstairs for a little-(clicks tongue) quickie and, uh, wandered into a nightmare.
BRENNAN: She was trying to get you to upstairs for a little-(knocks on the table and whistles)-
DENISE: (comes back) Hey, that's the guy that Lisa was with (points).
(A guy walks across the bar.)
BRENNAN: Yeah, he looks like he can be six feet tall.
BOOTH: What do you say we go pay him a little visit?
(They walk up to the guy who is now sitting at the bar.)
BRENNAN: Mind if we ask you a few questions?
ANTONIO: (nonchalant) Oh, well, lose your friend, and maybe.
BRENNAN: It's about Lisa Winokur.
(Antonio turns and Booth tackles him to the floor. Quickly, somebody pulls out a g*n and trains it on Booth.)
BOOTH: Ok, it's cool, man, it's all good.
(Booth slowly gets up and grabs the arm with the g*n. A small kafuffle breaks out that ends up with both men on the ground with Booth and Brennan towering over them with g*n pointed.)
ANTONIO: My name is Antonio Ramos! Call the Colombian embassy, I have diplomatic immunity.
(Cut to Lab, inside the Autopsy room.)
CAM: Musculature of the neck preserved the trachea, a swab shows no trace of carbon.
ZACK: So Lisa Winokur was not breathing when the fire started.
CAM: I found semen.
ZACK: Where?
CAM: The usual place.
ZACK: No, I mean, no condom?
CAM: Well, the sex may not have been consensual.
ZACK: If she was already dead when the fire started, what k*ll her?
CAM: Too much tissue damage for me. Now it's time for the boneyard. (Zack gives Cam a funny look) You, Zack. Do your thing.
ZACK: I'll have to ascertain if these fractures were the result of heat, expl*si*n or trauma. Which means I need to know the exact nature of the expl*si*n.
CAM: How do you do that?
ZACK: The usual way.
(Cut to inside an interrogation room. Booth and Brennan are with Antonio.)
ANTONIO: My embassy has been informed of my whereabouts, I have nothing more to say.
BRENNAN: Antonio Ramos.
BOOTH: Any relationship to, uh, Judge Dolores Ramos?
ANTONIO: She's my mother.
BRENNAN: This seriously calls genetics into question.
BOOTH: You know, your mother is a great woman. (Places a bottle of water in front of Antonio) Have some water. Why'd you run, Antonio? (He reaches out to grab the bottle with his right hand, but switches to the left) In my experience, there are two reasons why people run. One, danger.
BRENNAN: (observes Antonio's hand switch) What's wrong with your arm?
ANTONIO: What?
BRENNAN: Your arm, how did you hurt it?
BOOTH: (continues) The second reason people run is they got something to hide. So...you got something to hide, Tony?
BRENNAN: (coming around to examine Antonio's arm.) Compound fracture, there or five pins in there. Say, uh, six months old?
BOOTH: (holding out picture of Lisa) Did you have sex with her last night?
ANTONIO: (chuckling) Is she what this is about? Because it was her idea, not mine.
BOOTH: How well do you know her?
ANTONIO: Very well, and not so well, if you know what I mean.
(Booth chuckles in understanding.)
BRENNAN: I don't know what he means.
BOOTH: It means he had sex with her and forgot to learn her name.
ANTONIO: Well, you say that, not me.
BOOTH: Well, it's not like you, uh, exactly have a record because you have, you know, diplomatic immunity. More like a list of complaints.
(Booth drops his file on the table and Brennan picks it up.)
BRENNAN: Let's see here. Ok, speeding, DUI, riding a motorcycle on the mall, urinating on a national monument.
BOOTH: Good one.
BRENNAN: Substance abuse charges, every one of them. My guess is you, uh, got drunk and fell off a bicycle (pointing to his arm).
ANTOINO: It was a motorcycle.
(Radswell enters the room with Judge Ramos, not amused.)
RADSWELL: Agent Booth, you know Antonio Ramos has diplomatic immunity, yet you insist on questioning him.
BOOTH: Uh, diplomatic immunity doesn't mean I can't question him. It means I can't throw him in jail.
DOLORES: Are you all right, Antonio?
ANTONIO: Mm-hmmm.
RADSWELL: Mr. Ramos, you're free to leave. The FBI will not bother you anymore.
BRENNAN: Can he promise that?
BOOTH: No. (to Radswell) Do you have any other higher aspirations rather than just, you know, babysitting drunken playboys?
BRENNAN: (turning to the Ramos' who are leaving the room) She's dead.
ANTONIO: (opening the door) Who?
BRENNAN: Lisa. (holds out photo) Lisa Winokur. That was her name.
ANTONIO: How did she die?
BRENNAN: In the same expl*si*n that nearly k*ll your mother.
BOOTH: Did Lisa ever mention your parents?
RADSWELL: (warningly) Agent Booth.
ANTONIO: She knew who they were.
DOLORES: Antonio, answer no more questions.
RADSWELL: That's enough.
(Ramos' leave the room. Booth and Brennan start leaving, Brennan giving Radswell a hard look.)
RADSWELL: You have something to say to me, Dr. Brennan?
BRENNAN: Little people have a long history of being close to power.
RADSWELL: As clowns and court jesters. I see you've been to the art museum.
BRENNAN: Yes, but as clowns and court jesters they were the only ones allowed to mock the king, to give him perspective. You don't do that, Mr. Radswell. You just do what the king says without putting anything into perspective.
RADSWELL: Good thing I'm neither a clown nor a court jester.
(He moves to leave and reaches for the bottle of water left behind by Antonio.)
BRENNAN: Whoa-don't do that. It's DNA evidence.
(Cut to the lab, in one of the testing rooms.)
HODGINS: The FBI couldn't find any evidence of an expl*sive charge.
ANGELA: Then what blew up?
ZACK: There was liquor in the room. (setting up the experiment) Paint, turpentine.
CAM: Paint, turpentine and liquor blew down a wall, torched four people and deposited a corpse in a chandelier 12 feet off the ground.
ZACK: There was also petroleum distillate and six H.V.L.P. canisters hidden under traps.
HODGINS: High volume, low pressure. So you can see where this is going.
CAM and ANGELA: No, we can't.
HODGINS: A fire was set. The question is, given these ingredients, would there be a secondary expl*si*n? (hands the ladies ear plugs)
ZACK: I did the math very carefully (adjusts some knobs). This experiment should generate an expl*si*n approximately 1/1000th the magnitude of the expl*si*n at the hotel.
CAM: Excuse me?
ZACK: 1/1000th.
ANGELA: I think she meant the expl*si*n part, Zack.
HODGINS: Relax, a little pop. This blast wall Zack built-it's merely a precaution (puts on goggles).
ZACK: (standing behind the blast wall) We can watch through this porthole.
ANGELA: Hey, I'm gonna wait outside.
CAM: I hear that.
(They both leave. Hodgins joins Zack behind the blast wall.)
ZACK: Did they not hear me say I did the math quite carefully?
HODGINS: All right, I'll ignite the alcohol.
ZACK: The math says there will be a ten to twelve second gap before the H.V.L.P. container explodes.
HODGINS: Fine, ready? Igniting the alcohol.
(Turns on a switch that ignites a flame.)
ZACK: Ten, nine, eight...
(Cut to Angela and Cam waiting outside the testing room. A loud expl*si*n takes place and glass shatters from inside the room. They run back into the room where Zack and Hodgins are on the ground all covered in soot.)
ZACK: Man!
HODGINS: Woah! (coughing)
CAM: (enters the room) Are you all right? Can you breathe? (helps Zack get up)
ANGELA: (holding fingers in front of Hodgins) Hey, how many fingers am I holding up?
HODGINS: (getting up) I'm ok, I'm all right. Come on.
(They leave the room.)
ZACK: I don't understand what happens.
HODGINS: You know what that proves?
ANGELA: That you guys are idiots?
ZACK: (thinking) That a blast that strong wasn't necessarily a b*mb.
HODGINS: Most likely, somebody k*ll Lisa Winokur then started a fire to cover up their crime.
CAM: Without knowing there would be a huge expl*si*n. That's good guys, nice job.
(Cut to FBI building, Booth and Radswell are walking down a hallway.)
RADSWELL: Your theory of the crime is that Antonio Ramos started a fire to cover up a r*pe and m*rder.
BOOTH: DNA matches the sperm found in Lisa Winokur.
RADSWELL: What do you want from me?
BOOTH: I want you to have the kid declared persona non grata because of his previous offenses. That gets rid of diplomatic immunity.
RADSWELL: And you can arrest him?
BOOTH: Exactly.
RADSWELL: Never gonna happen.
BOOTH: Right, because Judge Ramos is such a good, good friend of this country.
RADSWELL: I don't think you can calculate just how many American lives she's saved by taking a hard line on the cartels in Colombia.
BOOTH: Obviously you have orders from the State Department to have this whole diplomatic mess booted out of the United States and back into Colombia. Don't say anything. Just, you know, if I'm right, just keep breathing.
RADSWELL: Bogota, 1998. The Ramos family is leaving the city for their country home. Their convoy is attacked. End to a long, ugly story-13 year old Antonio is running away from the fighting carrying his little sister. Only trouble is, he has to keep going back to pick up pieces of her brain.
BOOTH: That's a sad story, but it doesn't mean the guy can get drunk and k*ll five people, including an American citizen.
(Radswell enters an elevator and leaves. Booth's cell phone rings.)
BOOTH: (picking up) Yeah?
CAM: Booth, it's Cam. We know how Lisa Winokur died.
(Cut to lab. Inside the skeleton room, everyone is standing around Lisa's skeleton.)
BOOTH: She was strangled?
ZACK: The hyoid is cracked at the tips but not b*rned.
BRENNAN: Something was around her neck when the fire got to her.
CAM: Hodgins found b*rned fibers, he's analyzing them now.
ZACK: I also noticed a broken finger. I'm using those words especially for you, Booth.
BOOTH: (peeved) Thanks.
ZACK: Also, disjunct of acromion and coracoid with damage to the glenoid. (to Booth) Dislocated shoulder.
CAM: A typical injury of a v*ctim on the ground straining against someone strangling her from behind.
BRENNAN: There was a split in the cartilage between the T3 and T4 vertebrae (examines on the tv screen).
BOOTH: (quietly) Excuse me (leaves the room).
ZACK: (to Brennan) I thought that might be from the fire or expl*si*n.
BRENNAN: But why only those two vertebrae?
ZACK: You make a good point, I'll take another look.
(Cut to the main area of the Lab. Cam is looking at some files walking, with Booth catching up to her.)
BOOTH: Cam? Cam. (in step with Cam now) Has anyone said anything to you about, um...(whispers) you know?
CAM: Us sleeping together?
BOOTH: (quietly) You gotta be way more careful about blurting that out. Ok, voices, they carry, building like this.
CAM: There's no one around, and you brought it up.
BOOTH: Well, I mean, Angela is practically psychic about this kind of stuff, right? So you can't be thinking about me when, you know, she's around. Especially not naked.
CAM: I'll do my best.
HODGINS: (appears behind them) Onyx, peridot and Peruvian opal. (Cam and Booth pause, as if they have been caught) Probably jewelry. It's an unusual combination, very expensive.
BOOTH: Yeah, well, Lisa Winokur-I mean, she was a waitress. You know, I highly doubt that her tips would be able to cover expensive jewelry.
(Hodgins watches their babbling curiously.)
CAM: Well, a waitress that's having sex with a Colombian princeling-I mean, you don't buy expensive jewelry for a one-night stand.
BOOTH: And maybe Antonio was lying about not knowing Lisa.
CAM: Well, exactly.
BOOTH: Yeah.
HODGINS: Angela found a jeweler named Lawrence Melvoy who works in this stuff.
CAM: Ok.
BOOTH: I'll start-
CAM: All right, great.
BOOTH: (awkward) Yeah. (walks over to Hodgins) Take that?
HODGINS: Yeah, yeah (Booth takes the tray with the jewelry).
(They both exchange looks.)
(Cut to the FBI building. Booth is interviewing Lawrence Melvoy, the jeweler.)
MELVOY: (looking at the tray) Oh, my God. What happened?
BOOTH: Is this jewelry yours?
MELVOY: Definitely.
BOOTH: Are these pieces expensive?
MELVOY: This piece was worth 8,000.
BOOTH: Dollars?
MELVOY: My work is all original. (picking up a piece) This one went to a young woman. Cheap shoes, expensive watch, you know?
BOOTH: No, I'm sorry, I don't know.
MELVOY: That combination means that someone else purchased this piece for the young woman.
BOOTH: (opening a file and taking a picture of Lisa out) Could, uh, this be the woman?
MELVOY: That's her.
BOOTH: Yeah. I need to know who made the actual purchase.
MELVOY: I don't know the buyer.
BOOTH: You know how it was paid?
MELVOY: I have a bank routing number.
BOOTH: Ah, that'll do.

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Cut to Booth's office. He is chicken-pecking at his computer when Brennan enters.)
BRENNAN: Hey, I've had a realization. (notices what Booth is doing) Oh, I've never seen you on the computer before.
BOOTH: I'm, uh, just trying to find out who bought Lisa Winokur expensive jewelry. What? Me being on the computer-is that what, your realization?
BRENNAN: No. Antonio Ramos could not have been Lisa Winokur's attacker.
BOOTH: Why couldn't our prime suspect have committed the m*rder?
BRENNAN: Antonio's arm has pints in it.
BOOTH: Pins?
BRENNAN: Yeah, so maybe 30% of his normal strength. No way that's enough to dislocate our v*ctim's shoulder. So how?
BOOTH: How what?
BRENNAN: Well, how can you find the jewelry thing on the computer?
BOOTH: I have a bank routing number that dead ends at an offshore corporate account belonging to a shell corporation in the Netherlands Antilles.
BRENNAN: Isn't that impossible to trace?
BOOTH: Well, no. Since 9/11, all foreign wires have to register an individual's name with the State Department. So I simply access the State Department database...
(Booth types a search into the screen and a window pops up with the words 'Access Denied, confidential per US State Department'.)
BOOTH: Aw, hell.
BRENNAN: What?
BOOTH: That little bastard is protecting someone.
(Cut to another room in the FBI office, Radswell, Brennan and Booth enter.)
RADSWELL: If the computer says confidential, then it's confidential. I find it best not to argue with computers.
BOOTH: Were you the one who authorized the block or did it come from higher up on the food chain?
RADSWELL: Go through channels, make a request.
BOOTH: (peeved) Go to hell, Alex.
BRENNAN: Why are you being so mean?
BOOTH: Cause "go through channels" is diplomatic double-talk for "get lost."
BRENNAN: (to Booth) Can I talk to him?
RADSWELL: Hello? Dr. Brennan? I'm just small, not invisible.
BRENNAN: Under what circumstances, in general would the State Department block a name like this?
BOOTH: Come on, Alex. Hey, don't be one of them. Go on a limb, huh?
RADSWELL: (relenting) Fine. Might be an intelligence asset or someone under investigation. It could be a request from Homeland Security...they just do whatever the hell they want. Could be a CIA shell company masquerading as a bad guy, or a bad guy who's been compromised. The IRS could be working offshore shelters, it could be someone-
BOOTH: Ha! Ha!
BRENNAN: (confused) He didn't say anything.
BOOTH: (walking over towards Radswell) He was about to say "diplomatic immunity."
RADSWELL: Let's say the boy bought the girl some jewelry. That doesn't mean he k*ll her.
BOOTH: It means he was lying when he said he met her for the first time that night. Come on, Alex. This isn't evidence for court, I'm just, you know, collecting names.
RADSWELL: Please, like that's gonna work on me.
BRENNAN: Whoever k*ll Lisa Winokur is responsible for the deaths of four other people, including a priest. Doesn't the State Department have to assure those families they're doing everything they can to apprehend the responsible party?
RADSWELL: Are you threatening the State Department?
BRENNAN: No.
BOOTH: Yes.
BRENNAN: What?
BOOTH: That's a great idea.
BRENNAN: What's a great idea?
BOOTH: The FBI blackmailing the State Department.
RADSWELL: He has diplomatic immunity, there's nothing you can do.
BOOTH: (throwing a football up and catching it) Come on, Alex. Baby steps. (pause at Radswell's reaction) No offense.
BRENNAN: (chuckles) I just got that. It's baby steps, because you're so small. (chuckles) It's probably offensive.
RADSWELL: Sorry, I can't help you. (he leaves)
BRENNAN: Sorry.
(Cut to Angela's office. She's working on her computer as Hodgins approaches her with two mugs of coffee.)
HODGINS: Brought you some coffee. It's late.
ANGELA: (smiles) You said you found b*rned silk fibers on Lisa Winkour's throat, right?
HODGINS: Yeah, the good stuff too. Unwound filament, probably Chinese. None of this carded, combed or spun stuff. And definitely not nubbly.
(Angela looks at him with a grin)
HODGINS: What?
ANGELA: You are a man of odd enthusiasms. I'm checking for silk neckties on the men at the party. (computer beeps) Look at this.
(Video footage of Antonio in the elevator appears on the screen.)
HODGINS: That's Antonio two hours before the expl*si*n.
ANGELA: All the evidence points towards him. But Brennan says with his bad arm, there's no way he could've k*ll Lisa Winokur.
HODGINS: (hesitating) I...I know something. And when you know it, you should know that I know. But I don't feel we can discuss it until you, you know, know it independently from me.
(Hodgins leans down towards the top of Angela's head. Angela turns around.)
ANGELA: Are you sniffing my hair?
HODGINS: You called it, baby. Man of odd enthusiasms.
(Hodgins turns to leave as Angela brings up the ends of hair to her nose.)
(Cut to skeleton room. Zack is operating a machine over the bones.)
ZACK: Lisa Winokur's finger is broken.
CAM: Zackaroni, almost every bone in her body was broken.
ZACK: (shows Cam on the screen) This break was professionally set. (zooms the image in) It had started healing, I'd say around two weeks ago. And before I cleaned the bones, I noticed this metallic sheen. (shows another image on the next screen) I thought it was a cheap ring, but it's aluminum. I think it was a splint.
CAM: Do you draw a conclusion from that?
ZACK: I don't really do that, which is why I called you.
(Cut to an office. Jill Winokur is sitting at the table with Booth and Brennan.)
JILL: I don't see how health insurance forms can help you.
BOOTH: (takes the files from Jill) Yeah, I'm gonna have these photocopied, ok?
JILL: Sure.
(Booth stands up to leave, but not before he clears his throat, indicating something to Brennan. Brennan is left alone with Jill.)
BRENNAN: Anthropologically speaking a man gives a woman a gift as a way of laying claim. As a way of marking her as his to the other males in the community.
JILL: All I know is, he gave her nice things. And when he started talking about breaking it off, we were both surprised.
BRENNAN: They were breaking up?
JILL: (nods) I told her not to give up that easy. I told her when it comes down to it, a man like this, who's rich and sophisticated, he'll do the right thing by you.
BRENNAN: You advised your daughter to get pregnant?
JILL: It sounds bad, but there was no reason for Lisa to live the life I led. Please tell me my daughter wasn't m*rder because I told her to get pregnant (sobs).
BOOTH: (at the door) Excuse me. Bones, can I talk to you for a moment?
BRENNAN: Uh...(looks back at Jill), excuse me.
(Brennan leaves the room and talks with Booth outside.)
BOOTH: What did you do to her?
BRENNAN: I don't know.
BOOTH: (holds out the paper) Hospital admission forms.
BRENNAN: Yeah? What about 'em?
BOOTH: Well, look at the signature of the person who dropped Lisa off at the emergency room.
BRENNAN: (looking at the page) "Juan Vasco Ramos." That's Antonio's father.
BOOTH: Lisa was having an affair with the judge's husband, not her son.
BRENNAN: And he was leaving her.
BOOTH: How do you know that?
BRENNAN: (looking at Lisa through the glass window) She advised her daughter to get pregnant when it looked like Juan Ramos was about to dump her.
BOOTH: Yeah, Lisa sees the boy drunk, decides to seduce him.
BRENNAN: Has unprotected sex in an effort to get pregnant.
BOOTH: Dad finds out, and suddenly the troublesome girlfriend is worth k*ll.
BRENNAN: (looking through the glass) She's worried that her advice got her daughter k*ll.
BOOTH: Yeah, she's probably right. I tell you what, I'm gonna call Radswell and have him bring Dad in for questioning. (turns to leave, but stops) Oh, you know what? I should leave you alone more often.
(Cut to FBI office, Radswell arrives as Booth and Brennan waits.)
RADSWELL: Good morning.
BOOTH: Where's Juan Ramos?
RADSWELL: He declined your invitation. He decided to go back home to Colombia.
BOOTH: What airline?
RADSWELL: Why? You can't do anything anyway.
BRENNAN: Well, he k*ll five people!
RADSWELL: Yes, yes, let's not go through the mortality list again.
BOOTH: I need to know what airline.
RADSWELL: Private jet out of Kent Island Airport.
(Cut to Booth's SUV.)
BRENNAN: Even if we get there on time, how are we gonna stop them from taking off?
BOOTH: All right, call Hodgins.
BRENNAN: What can Hodgins do? I mean, this isn't about evidence.
BOOTH: Just give him a call.
(Cut to lab, Hodgins picks up his phone. The following conversation cuts back and forth from inside the car to the lab.)
HODGINS: Bugs, slime, particulates. What's your poison?
BOOTH: (talking into Brennan's phone) Hodgins, just listen. Don't say anything, just do as I ask.
(Hodgins remains silent.)
BOOTH: You there?
HODGINS: You told me not to say anything.
BOOTH: Look, ok, listen to me alright. I need you in your craziest most paranoid conspiracy mode to call the FAA and tell them that a private flight to Bogota is about to leave Kent Island Private Airport and is carrying aliens or-or t*rrorists, or, you know-you know what to do. Now, do you got any questions?
HODGINS: Just one. Full court press, no holds barred, maximum effort?
BOOTH: Just stop the plane from taking off.
(Booth hangs up, and Hodgins has a big smile on his face.)
(Cut to Kent Island airport, inside a hanger. A SWAT unit is surrounding a private plane.)
MAN #1: FBI!
MAN #2: Everybody out of the plane!
(Everyone gets off the plane as Booth's SUV screeches to a stop.)
BRENNAN: (getting out of the car) What will happen to Hodgins if the State Department finds out?
BOOTH: Know what? Better they don't find out.
(Brennan and Booth exchange looks with the Ramos'.)
(Cut to lab, up in the catwalk, Radswell approaches Booth, Brennan and Cam in the lounge.)
RADSWELL: The FAA got a call saying Judge Ramos's plane had been targeted by the National Liberation Army, a t*rror1st organization in Colombia.
BRENNAN: And you took it seriously?
RADSWELL: Caller used a highly classified code phrase which established the threat as authentic.
BOOTH: Really?
RADSWELL: A highly classified code phrase known only to a gold-plated asset inside the t*rror1st organization. If it weren't, I might suspect you had something to do with it. Booth, you seem to have trouble accepting that there is absolutely nothing you can do in these circumstances.
BOOTH: Well, Juan Ramos just, you know, flying out of here. This whole diplomatic immunity thing. The whole thing just stinks.
BRENNAN: You should think it stinks too, Mr. Radswell.
RADSWELL: Put together your evidence package, submit it to State. We'll present it to the Colombian authorities. Let them decide whether or not to levy charges (turns to leave).
CAM: Wait, wait. That's our only option? Hope that a foreign government will lay charges based on a forensics-heavy investigation done by American law enforcement on another continent?
RADSWELL: Unless you can persuade him to give up diplomatic immunity, yes, it's our only option.
BRENNAN: How long have we got to do that?
RADSWELL: About as long as it takes to take apart a plane and put it back together again. Maybe 24 hours. (turns and leaves)
(Cut to platform, Zack is following Cam to the autopsy room.)
ZACK: You're the one who said you have to be kept up to date on everything.
CAM: No, when I said everything, I might have been a bit too-you tend to bevery literal.
ZACK: Thermal dislocation can be extremely deceptive. Typically heat causes short bones to move at the ends. These were split in the middle.
CAM: What?
(Cam rushes outside and shouts.)
CAM: Brennan!
ZACK: Whoa, what'd I do?
CAM: T3 and T4 are behind the lungs. This is why we have to communicate more because-
BRENNAN: (enters the autopsy room) I have a cell phone, Dr. Saroyan.
CAM: I found evidence of a perforation in the membrane of her lungs.
BRENNAN: That could be connected to the T3 and T4 vertebrae damage.
CAM: Exactly what I thought. (to Zack) Could it have been pierced by a rib during the attack?
ZACK: The ribs were not broken pre-explosion.
BRENNAN: The vertebrae were pushed apart so they'd slide across the lung surface. That would cause a tear.
CAM: No, this is definitely a puncture.
ZACK: Whatever pierced the membrane was forced through the vertebrae.
CAM: A kn*fe?
BRENNAN: Zack?
ZACK: No cuts on the bone, something softer than a blade.
CAM: (thinking) To reach the lung from the back means moving through the epidermis, dermis, hypodermis, subcutaneous fat and three layers of thoracic muscle fiber and connective tissue. Not to mention splitting those vertebrae.
BRENNAN: That requires a great deal of pressure, suggesting the force of a leg, not an arm.
ZACK: It's as though Juan Ramos drove something into Lisa Winokur's back with his foot. Mm...like a golf tee?
(Cut to Angela's office. She is at the computer looking at footage of the Ramos the night of the party. Brennan, Cam and Booth are standing behind her.)
BOOTH: A golf tee? That makes no sense.
ANGELA: I'm not sure what we're looking for.
CAM: A sharp implement.
ANGELA: He has a pen in his pocket.
BOOTH: Wait, how would he force a pen through her back with his foot?
BRENNAN: Judge Ramos is 5 foot 9?
ANGELA: Yeah.
BRENNAN: Why is she the same height as her husband?
(Computer screen zooms in on the Judge's feet.)
ANGELA: Three-inch stiletto heels.
BRENNAN: We assumed the k*ll was six feet tall and a he. But what if it was a 5-foot-9 woman wearing three-inch heels? I mean, could Judge Ramos have driven her heel into Lisa Winokur's back as she strangled her? (flashback to the possible scenario)
BOOTH: The judge finds out that the waitress is having sex with both her husband and her son, trying to get pregnant (Hodgins enters the room). That's motive for m*rder.
ANGELA: Also, before the fire, she had a beautiful silk wrap on. Afterwards, it's gone.
HODGINS: That's what she used to strangle Lisa Winokur.
BOOTH: Great. It was Judge Ramos. She did it, very compelling evidence. Excellent, but you know what? Too bad, it's useless (frustrated, sits down in a chair).
CAM: Unless we can find a way to make Judge Ramos waive her diplomatic immunity.
BOOTH: How are we gonna do that?
CAM: (leaning down and placing her hand at the beck of Booth's neck) Go grab a cup of coffee. (Hodgins and Angela notice the exchange) I'll figure it out (she leaves).
BOOTH: Get some pie, Bones? Let's get some pie.
BRENNAN: Pie? Why are we having pie?
BOOTH: Cherry pie. Not too tart, not too sweet (they leave).
(Hodgins and Angela exchange looks.)
HODGINS: Oh, yeah, baby. That's what I'm talking about.
ANGELA: Wow.
HODGINS: Hey, love is in the purified and ionized lab air. Why should we resist?
ANGELA: (pointing to the door) Go.
(Cut to the Diner, Brennan and Booth are at their usual table.)
BRENNAN: A woman like Judge Ramos, who stood up to the drug cartels, who always did the right thing-it's hard to imagine her k*ll another human being.
BOOTH: Bones, she's a strong woman. That's why she stood up to the cartels and lived on after her daughter was k*ll. Hey, look, her point of view...Lisa Winokur was threatening her family, so she snapped.
BRENNAN: Will she get away with it?
BOOTH: Yeah, I think she will.
(Cam approaches their table and sits down next to Brennan.)
CAM: Ok, we all got together-well, Zack wouldn't help until I threatened him. But the rest of us...(opens the file with her) The blowback patterns shows that Lisa Winokur's k*ll was six feet tall. Antonio Ramos is six feet tall. Lisa Winokur had sex immediately before her demise, DNA tests show it was with Antonio Ramos. (holds up a photo of Antonio in the elevator) Lisa Winokur was strangled with a silk ligature, Antonio Ramos favours silk ties.
BRENNAN: Why are you manipulating the facts to make it sound like Antonio was the k*ll?
BOOTH: No, it's ok, Bones. Let her-let her continue.
CAM: Because of his broken arm, Antonio Ramos was forced to place his foot on Lisa Winokur's back, damaging her vertebrae.
BRENNAN: You are fabricating a scenario by misrepresenting the evidence and omitting key facts.
CAM: It's a bluff. Cops do it all the time.
BOOTH: So you think if we frame Antonio, Judge Ramos will confess to save her own son.
CAM: What mother wouldn't?
BOOTH: Bones?
BRENNAN: No, no.
CAM: It's no different than lying to a criminal to get a confession.
BOOTH: Or having Hodgins call the FAA with a fake terrorism tip.
CAM: He did what?
BOOTH: Oh, what? Now suddenly there's a line here?
BRENNAN: You can't allow this.
BOOTH: I'm a hundred percent against it.
CAM: Seeley, you hate diplomatic immunity.
BOOTH: Well, I'm against it when it's interfering with my m*rder investigation but the world's bigger than that.
CAM: What are you talking about?
BOOTH: We cheat diplomatic immunity here in DC, we catch a m*rder. That's great. They do it in "Upper Kamikazestan" and our boys end up on a red-hot spit over a slow fire.
BRENNAN: There's no such place as "Kamikazestan."
BOOTH: Ok, bottom line is, we ignore diplomatic immunity and the rest of the world finds out, it's open season on Americans. So you know what? Thanks for the effort and the fake file. (takes file and rips it) But let's just remember, all right? We're the good guys. Oh, I'm gonna need that real evidence file too.
CAM: Ok (gets up and leaves).
(Cut to FBI building. Booth, Brennan, Radswell and Dolores Ramos are sitting around a table. You can see her husband and son sitting outside the room.)
DOLORES: Even if this were true-
BRENNAN: It's true.
DOLORES: My family and I have diplomatic immunity.
BOOTH: That's politics. A woman like you-a judge, a prosecutor who's given up their whole life for justice-you can't live for what you did to Lisa Winokur. What next?
RADSWELL: The FBI formally hands this evidence over to me, I present it to the ambassador. He presents it to the attorney general of Colombia.
BRENNAN: And the State Department gets what it wants, what you've been working for all along.
BOOTH: This mess in another country (not amused).
RADSWELL: All parties played by the rules, that's diplomacy. (frustration from Brennan and Booth) Still, speaking outside of my role as a member of the State Department, (to Dolores) the attorney general of Colombia is not a friend to you.
DOLORES: No, he is not.
RADSWELL: This evidence is political amm*nit*on. I mean, there'll almost certainly be a trial and he would certainly want you in jail, which would mean-
DOLORES: The cartels have been trying to k*ll me for years. In prison, they would succeed on the first day.
BRENNAN: They would torture and k*ll you.
RADSWELL: Might I make a suggestion? Waive your diplomatic immunity and be tried fairly here in the United States.
(Dolores weighs over her situation, looking around the room and to her family outside.)
BOOTH: What's it gonna be, Judge? I turn this evidence over to an American prosecutor or to Mr. Radswell?
(After a few more moments of thought, she pushes the file across the table to Booth.)
DOLORES: I waive diplomatic immunity.
(Cut to Lab. Brennan is standing against the railing up in the catwalk/lounge watching as the rest of her team and Cam work on the platform below.)
BOOTH: (approaching Brennan and standing next to her against the railing) Well, look at 'em down there, huh? Heh! Probably falsifying evidence.
BRENNAN: I'm not sure I can totally trust Dr. Saroyan after that.
BOOTH: You know, Bones, Cam's a cop at heart. She, uh-she just wants to catch the bad guys. There are a lot of gray areas.
BRENNAN: Not for you, you did the right thing.
BOOTH: Yeah, it worked out is all.
BRENNAN: You did the right thing.
(A couple of men it suits approach the platform below.)
BOOTH: Uh oh.
(The two men in suits approach Hodgins.)
MAN #1: (holding out a badge) Sir?
BRENNAN: (watching from above) Well, shouldn't we do something?
BOOTH: (scoffs) Are you kidding? (Men lead Hodgins away) Hodgins being abducted by men in black? That's a dream come true.
(Hodgins smiles up towards them as he's being led away.)
END.
