"The Pain in the Heart"
Episode 3x14
Written By: Hart Hason and Stephen Nathan
Directed by: Allan Kroker
Transcribed by: Tracie
Disclaimer: The characters, plotlines, quotes, etc. included here are owned by Hart Hanson, all rights reserved. This transcript is not authorized or endorsed by Hart Hanson or Fox.
(Open: Flash back to final scene of previous episode "The Wannabe in the Weeds". Booth has just been sh*t by Pam Nunan and Brennan is leaning over him telling him he's going to be fine - as if she's reliving the moment.)
BRENNAN: Booth, you're gonna be fine. Really. Come on. Come on, Booth. It's gonna be fine. Come on, Booth. Come on, Booth. No! Oh, come on...
(Fade into: Medico Legal Lab - Forensic Platform. Brennan and Zack are going over remains from Limbo)
BRENNAN: The carbon isotopic composition of the collagen, shows a value of minus 16%.ZACK: Supporting the theory that the deceased was born in Provence, France.
(Hodgins, Angela, Cam and Sweets join them on the platform, all dressed in dark colors)
BRENNAN: In the 16th century...
HODGINS: It's time, Dr. Brennan.
BRENNAN: (ignoring Hodgins) The metacarpal phalangeal joints are smooth, showing dexterity. Perhaps a musician..
CAM: That's enough. We're going. Now.
BRENNAN: I have remains to identify. He could have a family.
ANGELA: He's 500 years old. They've probably adjusted by now.
BRENNAN: I'm not going. I've already made that clear.
SWEETS: It's Agent Booth's funeral, Dr. Brennan. Losing a loved one is -
BRENNAN: A partner, Sweets. I lost a partner.
SWEETS: Someone close to you. The funeral allows you to grieve so you can come to terms with his death.
BRENNAN: The Arunta Aboriginal tribe in Australia grieve by burning down their village and - and moving to a new one. That seems no crazier to me than gathering around a hole in the ground.
SWEETS: Being hostile won't -
ANGELA: Brennan...a word.
SWEETS: Excuse me? Professional psychologist.
(Angela pulls Brennan aside and holds up a finger to Sweets - indicating to give her a minute)
ANGELA: Look. I know how you see things, and I respect that, but I need to ask you a favor.
(She holds up Booth's funeral card)
ANGELA: I have to go to the funeral. I'm not going to be able to get through this alone. I've been crying for, like, days. I really need your shoulder here. I need my best friend.
(Cut to: Arlington National Cemetery. Everyone is gathered around a casket and Caroline is giving the eulogy. It's Booth's funeral.)
CAROLINE: I knew Seeley Booth. He was a good man who earned my respect and affection. And I don't like many people. Booth had a selfless commitment to his work, first in the military and then the FBI. Two weeks ago, he made the ultimate sacrifice - giving his life to save his partner. And in the brave act, he showed us what greatness we are all capable of.
BRENNAN: (loudly, to Angela) That woman was aiming at me and I would have happily taken that b*llet.
ANGELA: I know.
CAROLINE: May God's mercy and love shine on Seeley Booth as he takes his place beside the Lord.
BRENNAN: (loudly, to Angela) If there were a merciful God, why wouldn't he have saved Booth.
(Drums start playing as the officers prepare to fire their w*apon)
OFFICER: Standby.
(Camera pans to one of the officers and it's revealed that it's Booth.)
OFFICER: At ease.
(A man starts to walk towards the coffin, as the rest of the officers continue to follow commands)
OFFICER: Aim.
(Booth pushes through Zack and Sweets and punches the man, knocking him to the ground)
ANGELA: What the hell is going on?
(The casket is pushed to the ground and it opens up, revealing a dummy body inside.)
ZACK: They appear to be fighting.
(The man and Booth fight on the ground and Brennan watches. The man punches Booth and Brennan runs over to the casket to grab the dummy's arm and uses it to knock out the man. She immediately starts to move towards Booth - looking extremely angry)
BOOTH: Bones! Nice sh*t. (He notices her anger) What?
(Brennan punches Booth in the jaw and then stops off. Booth groans)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Booth and Brennan are walking out of Brennan's office.)
BOOTH: After I got sh*t, the Bureau faked my death so I could finally get that guy.
BRENNAN: I don't care.
BOOTH: Look, I drove him underground. He said the only way that we would ever see him again would be at my funeral, so...
BRENNAN: I don't care.
HODGINS: Who is he?
BOOTH: What part of "National Security" don't you understand, Hodgins?
HODGINS: "National Security": catch-all phrase for "we can do anything we want"
BRENNAN: I knew I shouldn't have gone to that funeral. It was a complete waste of time, just like I said.
BOOTH: Wait a second, you thought that my funeral was a waste of time?
CAM: I thought it was a lovely service, Booth.
BOOTH: Thank you. You know, I expected to see more people though.
HODGINS: I always imagined a lot of ex-girlfriends crying.
BOOTH: Yeah, me too.
ANGELA: You guys are pathetic.
BRENNAN: Just know I won't be attending your next funeral.
BOOTH: Bones, I'm telling you. You were supposed to know that I wasn't really dead. I swear! That's why I thought you weren't crying!
CAM: Informed by who, exactly?
BOOTH: I gave a list of people to the bureau to inform that I was not really dead. You know what? They didn't tell you, it's not my fault.
SWEETS: Dr. Brennan's actually upset because she had to face strong emotions that she'd rather deny. Striking Agent Booth, indicated the depth of your feelings for him. It was a very passionate act.
BOOTH: (to Sweets) Thank you! (to Brennan) Did you hear that? Passion!
BRENNAN: Yes, passion, because anger is a passion! Anger at being manipulated!
ZACK: Dr. Brennan?
BRENNAN: Pretend to be dead-
BOOTH: Aw forget it. I'm outta-
ZACK: Someone left a package for you.
(He hands her a package wrapped in plain brown paper - with "Dr. Temperance Brennan" written on it in marker. She opens it to find a box. Inside that box contains a mandible and 2 silver screws)
BOOTH: Oh!
BRENNAN: It's a mandible.
BOOTH: Look at that, huh. Two silver screws.
HODGINS: Silver screws as in...
ANGELA: Silver skeleton?
HODGINS: As in..
CAM: Gormogon?
BRENNAN: That's speculation.
(She examines the mandible closer.)
ZACK: Tooth marks.
BOOTH: Someone's been snacking on that.
CAM: Snacking? As in cannibalism?
BRENNAN: Evidence of cannibalism does not necessarily mean-
BOOTH: Bones, it's Gormogon. Has to be.
CAM: Oh, god. Who has he eaten this time.
(Opening Credits)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Platform. The team is gathered around a television watching Sweets on TV)
SWEETS: (On TV) This is the fifth known v*ctim in the Gormogon m*rder, all of which have been subjected to ritualized cannibalism.
FEMALE REPORTER: He has apprentices?
SWEETS: Yes. One at all time to help perform the m*rder, dispose of the bodies, eradicate evidence. His mission, it seems, is to construct a complete skeleton out of the bones of his v*ctim.
CAM: I've seen enough. (She turns off the TV)
BRENNAN: (turning to the platform) Booth?
BOOTH: Bones, I'm thinking here.
BRENNAN: Thinking about what exactly?
CAM: Well, it's a pickle. The platform's a crime scene but we need to access it to investigate the crime.
ANGELA: A "cake and eat it too" situation.
ZACK: Is it a cake or a pickle?
HODGINS: It's Schrodinger's Cat.
ZACK: That I understand. Cakes and pickles mean nothing to me.
BRENNAN: Are you paralyzed by the paradox, Booth?
CAM: I'll make this easy. What do you need first?
BOOTH: Identity.
CAM: Let's go people.
(The rush up the stairs, past Booth, and start getting to work on the platform)
BOOTH: Whoa. Hey, easy! Alright, you can't...alright. There ya go.
(The team huddles around he mandible.)
CAM: Okay, the tooth sockets may contain enough tissue to check DNA.
BRENNAN: Zack, there are markings on this bone that need to be checked out.
ZACK: It appears to have been boiled.
HODGINS: I'll see if I can pull any mineral traces that can help us determine the water he used.
(The disperse and go about their tasks)
BOOTH: Okay. I, uh, give you all permission to do whatever it is that you squints do. I'll, uh, just... (he brakes the crime scene tape on the stairs and starts backing down) Call me. (to the FBI agents at the bottom of the stairs) Let's go.
(Cut to: Booth's Bathroom. Booth is lounging in the tub, sipping beer from his beer helmet when Brennan barges in.)
BRENNAN: I need to talk to you!
BOOTH: What the hell, Bones! I'm in my house, in my bathroom, in my bathtub! (Brennan walks over to the record player and turns it off) How the hell did ya get in here anyway?
BRENNAN: Well, that fake rock by your front door wouldn't fool anybody. Why are you wearing a hat that dispenses beer?
BOOTH: Hot tub, plus cold beer equals warm beer. Hat? Equals solution. So why are you -
BRENNAN: And that cigar? Very unhealthy.
BOOTH: Okay, what the hell do ya want now, Bones? Okay? Cause I'm not really feeling too relaxed.
BRENNAN: You should have told me that you weren't dead.
BOOTH: I already explained this to you. The bureau has to vet everyone when there is a security issue. I was just following protocol.
BRENNAN: Protocol!?
BOOTH: Yes!
BRENNAN: We've been partners for three years, Booth, and you've broken protocol before - sometimes putting my life in danger. Which makes sense because you clearly don't have any real concern for me.
BOOTH: (standing up) I took a b*llet for you!
BRENNAN: Once! That only goes so far (realizing that Booth is standing there, naked) Would you like a towel?
(He sinks back into the tub)
BOOTH: Fine. What is it that I should have done, Bones? Wha- what did you want me to do?
BRENNAN: Well, you could have called me. Did you really think I needed to be vetted by your boss? I mean, don't you trust me?
BOOTH: Of course I do.
BRENNAN: Then why wasn't I told. It must have been something that you said.
BOOTH: No. I don't know why you weren't told.
BRENNAN: But you - you said that I should be. I mean, aren't you curious why I wasn't?
BOOTH: Yes! Do you want me to find out why you weren't told?
BRENNAN: If it's important to you.
BOOTH: Fine. I will. The next time I die, I promise that I will tell you.
BRENNAN: I'll look forward to that.
BOOTH: Me too.
(He opens up a "Green Lantern" comic book and starts reading)
BRENNAN: What are you reading?
BOOTH: A novel. (She looks at him) It's a graphic novel.
BRENNAN: Just so you know, I find your lack of Puritan modesty very refreshing.
(Booth lowers the comic book to cover himself and Brennan leaves the room, turning the music back on as she walks out the door.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - platform)
ZACK: The marks on the mandible definitely indicate that the bones have been gnawed on.
HODGINS: But, but not with teeth.
ZACK: The markings were made by someone wearing dentures.
CAM: Well, a toothless cannibal just can't cut it in todays competitive serial k*ll climate. How do you know he wore dentures.
HODGINS: Zack found traces of polymethylmethacrylate monomer tetrasalisic floramicha on the mandible. (9:41)
CAM: I'm gonna go out on a limb here and assume that's what dentures are made of.
(Cam picks up her phone and dials)ZACK: But not normal commercial dentures you get from the dentist.
HODGINS: Main ingrediant is polymethyl methacrylic.
ZACK: These dentures were homemade.
CAM: (into phone) I got our v*ctim DNA results back.
(During the conversation, camera cuts between Booth - in the bathtub and Cam - in the lab)
BOOTH: Is it the Lobbyist?
CAM: Yup. Gormogon's last v*ctim.
BOOTH: I was wondering when some part of him would show up.
CAM: (hears the water going down the drain) What's that sucking sound?
BOOTH: You know what? This is MY house. Okay? You come into my house there's not telling what you're gonna hear. (he hangs up abruptly. Cam wonders what that was all about.)
ZACK: Dr. Saroyan. (Cam hangs up her phone) Regarding the denture medium, if we recreate the process-
HODGINS: Could tell us a lot about Gormogon's resources.
CAM: If you want to do one of your experiments, just say it.
HODGINS & ZACK: (in unison) We want to do one of our experiments.
CAM: Go! (she points towards towards the door, smiling.) Make plastic, cannibal dentures.
(Cut to: Basement of the Jeffersonian - Sweets, Brennan and Booth are there)
SWEETS: You should place the jawbone in the skeleton.
BRENNAN: Why?
SWEETS: Cause it keeps alive an interactive relationship with the k*ll. That's why he provided the screws. You know, we give him something, he reciprocates. Did you see me on TV? No one has mentioned that I was on TV.
BOOTH: Alright, look. How would he know if we added the jawbone to the skeleton?
SWEETS: Well, it's his obsession. He has some way of finding out, which is another reason to do it. Okay. Both of you are purposely not mentioning my appearance.
BRENNAN: Well, for all we know, Gormogon is dead and we're not on the list of people who get to find that out.
(Brennan heads for the stairs, the guys follow)
SWEETS: There's s cry for attention.
BOOTH: Bones broke into my house last night, all angry-
BRENNAN: (talking over Booth) There was a key!
BOOTH: because no one told her that I was dead. And I was just following protocol.
SWEETS: Broke into your house?
BRENNAN: There was a key.
BOOTH: And barged into my bathroom.
SWEEETS: (laughs) What were you doing?
BRENNAN: He was drinking beer and reading a comic book.
BOOTH: I was taking a bath.
SWEETS: You read comics and drink beer naked?BOOTH: Wait a second. Bones bursts into MY bathroom, alright, and I'm weird for being naked?
(Cut to: Medico-Legal Lab - Hodgins and Zack are preparing for the experiment)
ZACK: This thermoplastic has a melting point of approximately 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. This would work better if we created a paste from the monomer and polymethylmethacrylate powder HODGINS: That would entail the complicated use of cosolvents to allow copolymerization without substantial phase separation. Monomers melting point is far below the polymethylmethacrylate.
(Cut to: Medico-Legal Lab - Booth, Brennan and Sweets are walking near the Forensics Platform)
SWEETS: So you didn't tell her to leave? You just sat there, naked?
BOOTH: It was my own bathroom, okay? What do you wear in the tub? Floaties?
(Cut to: Medico-Legal Lab - Hodgins and Zack are still preparing for the experiment)
HODGINS: Ready for the monomer?
ZACK: Yes. I believe so. The mold is over there on the side table.
HODGINS: Why don't you get the mold and I'll mix in the monomer?
ZACK: No. I'll mix it in. Please hand me the monomer, then the mold.
(He goes to hand Zack the monomer, but then pulls it back)
HODGINS: Since when did I become the assistant?
ZACK: Since I became the uncontested "King of the Lab".
(Hodgins hands Zack the monomer and then walks away. Zack puts the monomer into the pot - which causes an expl*si*n. The alarms sound and Booth, Brennan and Sweets run toward its source.)
SECURITY GUARD: Move to the exits, now!(They see Hodgins on the floor)
BRENNAN: Hodgins!
HODGINS: I'm alright. I'm alright. I'm okay.
(They see Zack, his hands are still through the Plexiglas and badly b*rned. He's breathing heavily. Booth tries to move the debris away from him.)
BRENNAN: Oh my god. Zack?
CAM: Okay, a medical teams on it's way. Oh my - I'll get the burn kit.
BRENNAN: Is he okay?
BOOTH: He's in shock, Bones. Look at his hands.
BRENNAN: Zack? (cut to shots of them all looking at Zack, in shock) Zack.
(Cut to: Regional Medical Center - ICU- Brennan is sitting in a chair next to Zack's bed while Booth is standing behind her.)
ZACK: Is Hodgins okay?
BRENNAN: He's fine. Just a few minor cuts.
BOOTH: Yeah. Don't worry about it, Zack. Alright? We're gonna fix ya up. You're gonna be as good as new.
ZACK: That would be impossible, Agent Booth. The damage is-
BOOTH: We'll make sure we get you the best doctors.
BRENNAN: The cartilage is destroyed, Booth.
ZACK: In addition, the trapezoid and hamate on my left hand are-
BOOTH: Hey. Hey, how about a little optimism here, huh?
ZACK: I know that I can still be quite useful. Mentally, I"m still exceptional and with prosthesis-
(Hodgins enters the room, followed by Angela and Cam.)
HODGINS: Hey. How are ya, Zack?
ZACK: Quite severely injured. Are you alright?
HODGINS: I'm okay, man.
ANGELA: Hey, anything you need, Zack. Just ask.
CAM: Do you know how this happened?
ZACK: I just added the 3 grams of monomer.
HODGINS: But that doesn't make sense. There are no dipoles like amide or carbonyl in the monomer. Were there?
ZACK: No. Just simple phenylethene.
HODGIND: That's what I thought. And the PMMA was just-
BOOTH: Hodgins. He has third degree burns.
BRENNAN: The doctor said you should rest, Zack.
HODGINS: She's right. Hey. We're gonna figure this out, okay?
CAM: And you won't be alone, Zack. One of us will be here all the time.
ZACK: Well, that's not necessary.
ANGELA: Yes it is. Because we - love you. (Hodgins puts his hand on Zack's forehead) I'll take the first shift.
CAM: And I'll write us a schedule.
BRENNAN: I'll get you whatever you need to keep your job. We'll get through this.
ZACK: Thank you, Dr. Brennan.
(Brennan gets up and kisses him on the forehead, then leaves - leaving Angela and Zack alone)
(Cut to: Medico-Legal Lab. Hodgins and Sweets are by his desk)
HODGINS: A simple monomer wouldn't explode. It just wouldn't happen.
SWEETS: Isn't the FBI handling the analysis of the expl*sive residue?
HODGINS: Excuse me if my faith in the bureau isn't absolute.
SWEETS: So you don't trust Agent Madison?
HODGINS: I'm just getting my own results to double check. I'm sure he's - fine - but I'm independent.
SWEETS: You suspect that there could be a conspiracy within the bureau?
HODGINS: Do I hear a little 'tude, young man?
SWEETS: No, no, no. Why would there be a conspiracy in this case? Totally 'tudeless question.HODGINS: Prominent public figures being m*rder and eaten. Evidence that secret societies are being targeted - societies that have great influence in the halls of power - like the bureau.
SWEETS: You don't think that's a bit extreme.
HODGINS: You went on Larry King to talk about this case. And TMZ because you know how big it is and to get your piece of it.
SWEETS: I'm a doctor. I'm merely studying the case like you.
HODGINS: Right. (he brings up results on the computer screen) Oh, man. I should have known.
AGENT MADISON: What?
HODGINS: You expect me to tell you the answer, Agent Madison?
AGENT MADISON: It's tricyclic acetone peroxide.
HODGINS: He's not bad.
AGENT MADISON: It reacted with the molten thermal plastic and - (he makes an exploding noise) Boom.
HODGINS: The containers must have been switched. Zack thought he was adding a monomer he had made himself but it was actually a volatile expl*sive.
(Cut to Medico-Legal Lab. Sweets is on the phone in the hallway near Brennan's office.)
SWEETS: (into phone) Yes. I'm busy. Cancel all my patients. You don't have to tell them anything-
(Booth comes up behind Sweets and starts dragging him towards Brennan's office.)
SWEETS: What are you doing?
BOOTH: A word?
SWEETS: I'm on the phone.
BOOTH: Well, hang up.
SWEETS: (into phone) Okay, I'll talk to you later. (he hangs up and puts the phone in his pocket. Then to Booth.) Ah, tight grip you got there..
BOOTH: And it could get tighter. So go ahead. Tell her.
SWEETS: Tell her what?
BRENNAN: Tell me what?
BOOTH: Tell her now.
SWEETS: What?
BOOTH: Fine. I'll tell her. Okay? I sent my list to the bureau. They sent it to Sweets. You were the one who decided not to tell Dr. Brennan that I was still alive. He's the one that you should have slugged, so do it. Go ahead and do it now.
BRENNAN: What? You choose not to tell me?
SWEETS: Yes, it's true. Technically.
BOOTH: Technically?
SWEETS: Okay, I reviewed the list and decided, knowing Dr. Brennan as I do, that she was in fact able to handle your death.
BOOTH: (to Brennan) Slug 'em.
SWEETS: It was a National Security issue. The fewer people that knew Agent Booth was alive, the safer he would be.
BRENNAN: I think that was a good choice.
SWEETS: Awesome.
BOOTH: You do?!
BRENNAN: Yes. You knew that Booth's death was something that I could deal with because I can compartmentalize.
BOOTH: Woah. Wait a minute. Now why are you mad at me then?
BRENNAN: Because you should have told me, personally.
BOOTH: Oh, I should have just ignored National Security concerns, broken the law and told you.
BRENNAN: Yes. You know I'm very trustworthy.
BOOTH: Yeah, but Sweets...
BRENNAN: Sweets made a professional decision. He knew I could process your death and move on - which is precisely what I did.
SWEETS: That's right.
BOOTH: There's gotta be other stuff going on here, right?
SWEETS: What?
BOOTH: Transference. Uh, paranoia. Come on! I mean, when I offer her a piece of pie you say it has deeper meaning.
BRENNAN: I don't like pie, Booth.
BOOTH: Well, apple pie. She doesn't like baked pie.
BRENNAN: I don't like my fruit cooked.
SWEETS: Okay, changing the subject is a way to avoid your feelings.
BOOTH: My feelings. Okay, now you're attacking my feelings?
(Cam appears in the doorway)
CAM: Hey. There's something in the Gormogon vault I think you should see.
BOOTH: (moves past Sweets to the door - but to Brennan) Slug 'em.
SWEETS: You know, I think it's interesting, psychologically how Agent Booth's constant efforts to persuade you to enjoy fruit pie could be interpreted as a kind of seduction.
BOOTH: Whatever you two are talking about? Just stop it. Zip it. Let's go.
(Cut to: Stairs leading down to the Gormogon Vault. Brennan stops Sweets on the stairs when Booth and Cam are out of earshot.)
BRENNAN: You think I don't recognize an experiment when I see one? You experimented on us.
SWEETS: Beg your pardon.
BRENNAN: Not telling me Booth was alive? You wanted to quantify our reactions for your own research? You took advantage of us. Booth and I agreed to let you observe us. We did not agree to be used as lab rats, so you better cut it out.
SWEETS: Dr. Brennan, why are you talking so fast?
BRENNAN: Because if Booth hears why you did what you did? He'd b*at ya up.
SWEETS: Don't you think that'd be an overly aggressive act?
BRENNAN: Not at all. So you better not do it again.
(They start to head down the stairs)
BOOTH: (O.S) Let's go, Bones. Where are you?
SWEETS: On our way.
(The four of them enter the vault)
CAM: Security had the entrance to this wing locked and the vault, itself, was secured.
BRENNAN: The skeleton.
BOOTH: Where'd it go?
HODGINS: We don't know. I came down to see if the screws matched the silver in the skeleton and the skeleton was gone.
SWEETS: But there are security cameras and sensors covering every inch of this place.
CAM: They all failed.
BOOTH: All of them?
CAM: When Zack's expl*si*n set off all the alarms, every security camera in the building failed.
HODGINS: The door to the loading dock was unlocked.
BRENNAN: Someone stole the skeleton!
(Cam walks over to the computer to bring up the security footage)
CAM: Ten minutes before the expl*si*n -
HODGINS: Everything is working perfectly.
CAM: Fast forward; Hodgins passes Zack the container of tricyclic acetone proxide..
HODGINS: I thought it was the monomer.
CAM: The expl*si*n occurred at 12:03 and 22 seconds. At 12:03 and 22 seconds - (the screens on the computers are nothing but snow)
BOOTH: Aren't there any backup systems?
CAM: All dead too.
BRENNAN: Where were the guards?
CAM: There was a chemical accident. That takes precedence over any other security issue. All personnel went to secure the lab or went to secure any point that went to the museum proper so there'd be no loss of life.
BRENNAN: During that time, the vault and the skeleton would be unsecured.
CAM: Yes, until the security system was brought back up at 12:18 and 41 seconds. The expl*si*n was a diversion set up by Gormogon.
BOOTH: He's here in the lab. It's an inside job. Gormogon works at the Jeffersonian.
BRENNAN: Either Gormogon or his new apprentice.
(Booth dials a number)
SWEETS: It is a totally freaky thought.
BOOTH: (into phone) Yeah, it's Booth. Listen, I need a full forensic team sent to the Jeffersonian. Mobile labs, computers, analysis - the works. No. Their equipment could be compromised.
(Cut to: Basement of the Jeffersonian - 2 hours later. Cam is walking into a room that is filled with FBI Agents. One is using body recognition software to see if anyone is out of the ordinary.)
CAM: Hair? Prints? Anything?
FBI FORENSIC TECH MARCUS GEIER: Not since you asked five minutes ago. No.
CAROLINE: Dr. Saroyan. Please don't bother the techs. You have a problem? You see me.
CAM: It's my people you suspect here. I wanna make sure your doing your job. After all, you're a prosecutor, not a forensic-
CAROLINE: You have been breathing down our necks for two hours, Cherie. Why don't you go get a latte or something. You should be here anyway.
CAM: This is my department!
CAROLINE: I know. And you have full security clearance and complete access to the lab and the vault.
CAM: Are you saying I'm a suspect now?
CAROLINE: I'm saying someones gonna put your name on the list. You were a cop. Wouldn't you?
CAM: You've got over thirty agents here. Find something.
(Cam storms off.)

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Cut to: Royal Diner. Booth and Brennan are having coffee.)
BRENNAN: The Medico-Legal lab has over 100 employees.
BOOTH: Yeah, and all their records are being looked at - including yours and mine.
BRENNAN: What, you're just having coffee? Don't you want pie?
BOOTH: I'm fine.
BRENNAN: But you always have pie.
BOOTH: Can we stop talking about pie?
BRENNAN: Is it because of what Sweets said?
(Sweets enters and walks over toward their table)
BOOTH: I'm just going pie-less. Okay?
SWEETS: Can we talk for a minute? I have a profile of someone I feel could be Gormogon. (he notices Booth is only having coffee.) No pie? You always eat pie.
BOOTH: Enough with the pie, will you just sit down?
SWEETS: Alright.
BRENNAN: Whoa! You've been spying on us? More experiments?
BOOTH: What experiments?
SWEETS: I'm just being thorough. The dynamics of our work environment play a role in how I treat you and Agent Booth.
BOOTH: Okay, Sweets. Will you just get on with it? Who is it?
SWEETS: I believe it's Dr. Hodgins.
BRENNAN: What is Dr. Hodgins?
BOOTH: Gormogon. He thinks Hodgins is Gormogon.
(Brennan makes a face like she is about to protest.)
SWEETS: Hodgins exhibits clinical paranoia as well as a rationalized feeling of superiority.
BRENNAN: Paranoia.
SWEETS: Yeah. He's consumed by numerous conspiracy theories. My observations today? He's even suspect of the FBI, with whom he works closely.
BRENNAN: That's all supposition. There's not concrete evidence.
BOOTH: (to Brennan)No, no, no. (to Sweets) Go on.
BRENNAN: Booth!
BOOTH: What? Hodgins knew all about the secret societies. I mean, he figured out the patterns Gormogon used that led us to the vault.
BRENNAN: Yes. He was doing his job.
SWEETS: Or justifying himself. He had access to all the chemicals Zack was using. He could have changed the labels.
BOOTH: He and Zack are friends...
BRENNAN: I also had access to the chemicals Zack made. Why am I not a suspect?
SWEETS: Well, you have a reverence for life that belies the cold, calculations of a k*ll. And the emotional connection you share with Agent Booth...
BRENNAN: No. That..I - (she starts getting up) I don't have time for this. No. (she leaves)
BOOTH: (to Sweets) Don't you know by now you can't rush her?
(Booth gets up to go after her)
SWEETS: We're trying to catch a k*ll. I thought it best not to waste time.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab. Booth and Brennan are walking into Brennan's office.)
BOOTH: Look, he's just trying to help, Bones.
BRENNAN: Well, his opinions won't get you a conviction. He doesn't have any evidence.
BOOTH: Yeah, but he's a profiler with a great track record.
(Cam enters behind them)
CAM: Who?
BOOTH: Sweets.
BRENNAN: Sweets says that Hodgins is the k*ll.
CAM: Well, it makes sense.
BRENNAN: What?
CAM: What? Throw suspicion off him.
BOOTH: Who?
CAM: Sweets.
BOOTH: You think that Sweets is the k*ll?
CAM: Well, he shows up right after you find the Gormogon vault, when Gormogon's at his most vulnerable. And in therapy, he plays you two like a cheap piano until you ask for his help with the case.
BOOTH: Wait a second. Nobody plays me like a cheap piano.
CAM: No, hey! We all trusted the brilliant, young, profiler. I got him security clearance because he was gonna help us.
BRENNAN: He was here. He had the opportunity to switch Zack's chemicals.
BOOTH: Wait. Except he's not a chemist.
CAM: He's the only one we can't account for after the expl*si*n.
BRENNAN: What? Great. Now we sound like Sweets. We have no evidence.
CAM: I was a cop for ten years, Dr. Brennan. I can smell it on him.
BRENNAN: I- I'm sorry, but we need more than your gut feeling.
CAM: Well, then find it. Cause trust me, Sweets is your boy.
(Cam leaves)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab- Cam's office. She's checking out something on her computer screen when Hodgins walks in. She notices him and jumps.)
CAM: Dr. Hodgins, knocking would be appreciated.
HODGINS: Right. Sorry. So rumor is one of us is a suspect. Who is it?
CAM: I can't say. You know that.
HODGINS: Of course not. And since it's rumor, it might not even be true. Right?
CAM: Do you have a legitimate reason to see me or are you just here to squeeze me for information?
HODGINS: I found something.
( Hodgins walks over to Cam's and starts bringing up something on her computer screen)
HODGINS: Zack said he thought the mandible had been boiled.
CAM: To remove tissue.
HODGINS: I pulled trace elements from the mandible and ran them through the mass spectrometer to see what the bone was boiled in. It was tap water. But see this spike here? (he points to the screen)
CAM: Lead?
HODGINS: Yes.
CAM: I thought the city had to replace all their lead pipes.
HODGINS: They did, but individual homeowners didn't. I focused on neighborhoods with the highest lead levels. Older homes were the worst offenders (He brings up a map. Part of it is shaded in blue) This neighborhood matches the level of lead found on the v*ctim bone.
CAM: Isn't that your house?
HODGINS: Yes. It is. But there are other people that live in the area too.
CAM: Yes, of course. I'll pass this along to the investigators.
HODGINS: Good.
CAM: Is there anything else?
HODGINS: I could have fudged the facts. Could have left my neighborhood out.
CAM: Yes, but that would have raised suspicion if someone had double checked your results.
HODGINS: If you need me, I'll be at my station. Helping.
(Hodgins leaves)
(Cut to Royal Diner. Sweets is sitting at the counter when Booth and Brennan enter.)
SWEETS: Hey. This is a surprise.
( Booth and Brennan take a seat on either side of him)
BOOTH: Yeah. Hey, Sweets, uh, where were you after the expl*si*n?
SWEETS: I was with you.
BRENNAN: No. You were with us when the expl*si*n occurred.
BOOTH: I mean after.
SWEETS: Uh, let's see. I ran to call 911.
BRENNAN: Where?
SWEETS: In your office. Why?
BOOTH: Then what?SWEETS: Then I went to the door to show the EMT's where to go.
BRENNAN: Hmm, you didn't come in with them.
SWEETS: No. I find it's best to stay out of the way of the professionals in those situations. Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot one thing.
BOOTH: What's that?
SWEETS: I went down to the vault and I stole the silver skeleton because, um, I'm Gormogon's apprentice.
BOOTH: That's a confession. You know, I can lock him up for 72 hours.
SWEETS: You'd lock me up for sarcasm?
BRENNAN: I - I think you should.
SWEETS: Wait. You guys actually think that I'm Gormogon's apprentice?
BOOTH: Well, somebody is. That way I can lock you up, check out your story and not worry about you running off to Bolivia.
SWEETS: This is fierce wretched.
BRENNAN: Better safe than sorry.
BOOTH: Yeah.
SWEETS: No. You're projecting, Agent Booth. You have a reasonable hostility toward Gormogon but you have no outlet for those feelings so you're using me -
BOOTH: Am I gonna have to break out my cuffs?
SWEETS: You know what? Yeah. You are gonna need your cuffs cause I'm not about to make this easy for you.
(Cut to: Regional Medical Center - ICU. Zack is asleep and Angela is sleeping in a chair next to his bed. Hodgins leans over and kisses her on the cheek - waking her up.)
ANGELA: Hi.
(He kisses her again.)
HODGINS: How is Zack?
ANGELA: Oh, he's in a lot of pain but he won't let me push the pain k*ll button.
HODGINS: He's scared of polka dots but screaming agony is just an interesting phenomenon.
(Angela nods in agreement)
ZACK: Drugs give me bad dreams.
HODGINS: Oh, hey there, Zack.
ZACK: I'm walking somewhere and suddenly someone takes me by the hand and I look and it's the skeleton. And the skeleton's on fire and my hands hurt.
ANGELA: Take the pain k*ll, sweetie.
ZACK: I've been thinking about the expl*si*n, Hodgins. No one could have switched the chemicals. I locked up the container when I left the room. (Hodgins presses the button on the pain k*ll) I had the only - key. (Hodgins presses it again) You - would know but you - I'm afraid the pain k*ll work pleasant on my intellect.
HODGINS: Sometimes your friends gotta step in - (he presses the button one last time) Dumb it up for you.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab. Brennan is sitting in her office working at her computer when Cam appears in the doorway.)
CAM: Don't you think it's time to go home?
BRENNAN: (surprised) Oh! Ah. Sorry, Cam. I seem to be a bit anxious.
CAM: Don't worry about it. It's going around. Hodgins came to talk to me and I almost jumped out of my skin. What's keeping you so late?
BRENNAN: Looking at the tissue we used for the DNA test? The v*ctim DNA alleles and the roots were destroyed. And the mer alleles - were altered. Then, I remember, when I first looked at the jaw bone, it seemed lighter in color than I expected.
CAM: It was treated with ultraviolet light?
BRENNAN: (nodding in agreement) I think so.
CAM: Who would do that?
BRENNAN: We would. Standard procedure for skeletal remains when we put them away for storage. We have over 10,000 sets of remains waiting to be identified. What better place to hide a skeleton?
CAM: How do we sift through 10,000 sets of remains?
(Neither of them have any idea...)
(Cut to Medico Legal Lab - Modular Skeletal Storage (AKA Limbo). Brennan, Caroline and Angela are standing in front of a group of Brennan's grad students.)
ANGELA: I'd like to welcome, all of Dr. Brennan's grad students, to Limbo.
BRENNAN: Uh, it's Modular Skeletal Storage. I don't like the term "Limbo".
ANGELA: (to Brennan) Over 10,000 lost souls remain here, Sweetie.
Unidentified. Waiting. It's a good name. Let's just go with it. (to the grad students) Each of these boxes contains the skeletal remains of one person.
BRENNAN: In this case: a skull, 2 femurs, 5 vertebrae, miscellaneous phalanges and 3 molars.
ANGELA: What we want you to do is conduct an inventory - making sure that what's in the box corresponds, not only to the card in the box but also to the computer record.
GRAD STUDENT #1: Does this count toward our final grade?
CAROLINE: Listen, Brennan's grad students. What we're trying to do here is catch a serial k*ll. Not get a gold star from Teach.
ANGELA: We think that he's hidden the remains of one or more of his v*ctim here.
BRENNAN: Bones, tucked into boxes, where they don't belong.
ANGELA: But I think it's fair to say that if you help us catch a serial k*ll, that you'll pass your precious course.
BRENNAN: That - that's not necessarily true. If anyone else shows up down here indicating an interest in what you're doing - either tell Miss Montenegro or shout for security.
GRAD STUDENT #2: Why?
CAROLINE: Because serial k*ll get mean when you get close to catchin 'em.
(Time lapse: The grad students are working on sorting the remains that are in the boxes)
CAROLINE: This is just creepy.
BRENNAN: Well, it's the natural order of things. We all end up this way.CAROLINE: Thank you, Cherie. Now you've made it creepy and depressing.
GRAD STUDENT #1: I've found an extra femur in one of the boxes and an extra fibula in another.
BRENNAN: You sure?
GRAD STUDENT #1: The remains in the box were of a 4 year old child. The femur was from a man in his mid 40's to early 50's.
BRENNAN: And the fibula?
GRAD STUDENT #1: Also from a middle aged man. It had recently been boiled. Three other people found extra bones as well.
(A female grad student walks up behind Brennan and clears her throat slightly to make her presence known.)
GRAD STUDENT #3: I found an extra manubrium, male ulna and a humerus in a box of female remains.
BRENNAN: Okay, lay out all of the extra bones anatomically.
GRAD STUDENT #3: It's already done. Over here.
(They walk to the table where all the bones are laid out.)
BRENNAN: Nice job.
GRAD STUDENT #3: I'm third in my class.
BRENNAN: I'd like the names of the two students in front of you. (looking at the bones) 45 to 50 years old. Fibula and femur show a height of approximately 180cm.
CAROLINE: How tall is that in English?
BRENNAN: Approximately 5'8". (to the grad student) Have Dr. Saroyan take DNA samples and compare them to all of Gormogon's known v*ctim.
(The grad student nods in agreement)
CAROLINE: You suspect something, don't you?
BRENNAN: I have no facts yet. My opinions are not relevant.
CAROLINE: Let me make the call, Cherie. Give me some of that big brain of yours.
BRENNAN: (pointing to the skull) Someone removed the mandible from the skull.
CAROLINE: It's the one that was sent to you.
BRENNAN: I can't say that with certainty. Dr. Saroyan should see if the DNA matches.
CAROLINE: (to the grad student) Didn't you hear her? Get this up to Dr. Saroyan. Now!
GRAD STUDENT #2: Dr. Brennan? I think you should take a look at this.
(Brennan and Caroline walk over to where the male grad student has many skulls lined up on a table. Brennan immediately notices something similar about all of them.)
BRENNAN: All of the canines have been removed from these skulls. Just he canines.
CAROLINE: I want the security tapes from this room for the last 6 months.
BRENNAN: This room isn't covered.
CAROLINE: Why not?
BRENNAN: It's Limbo. I - I need to re-examine the mandible Zack was working on before the expl*si*n.
(Brennan runs out)
CAROLINE: Of course you do.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Autopsy Bay/ Cam's Office. Caroline and Cam are looking at a picture of the lobbyist on the computer screen.)
CAM: It's the Lobbyist that disappeared. DNA's a match and so are the dentals. Dr. Brennan's gonna want to take a look at the markings on these.
CAROLINE: What's that? More cannibal teeth marks on the bone?
CAM: Gormogon went after this like Henry the 8th after a chicken leg.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensic Platform. Brennan is re-examining the mandible that was sent to her by Gormogon.)
CAM: These appear to have been gnawed on too. They'll probably match the denture markings Zack found.
BRENNAN: They won't.
CAM: You haven't looked at them yet.
BRENNAN: Zack said these markings on the mandible were made by artificial dentures made from polymethylmethacrylate and other polymers.
CAM: And?
BRENNAN: They were not made by artificial dentures. Zack should have known that.
CAROLINE: He made a mistake. It happens.
CAM: Not often.
(Brennan walks away. Caroline and Cam just look at each other, puzzled.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Brennan's office. She's on her computer when Booth walks in.)
BOOTH: Hey. I heard Zack was wrong about the dentures.
BRENNAN: No.
BOOTH: What do you mean? Cam and Caroline said..
BRENNAN: He knew they weren't artificial. Any first year student would know that. (she brings up a model of the dentures with the canines in them on the screen) The dentures were made from real teeth. All canines.
BOOTH: Ugh. Woah.
BRENNAN: Canines are a symbol of the wolf which appears on the Gormogon tapestry in the vault. And certain ancient sects revere the wolf as a symbol of freedom. As a representative of the forces that will deliver us from persecution.
BOOTH: Okay, Bones. Enough about the wolf. What's going on?
BRENNAN: Zack lied.
BOOTH: Why?
BRENNAN: He - he took the teeth from bone storage and he made Gormogon's dentures.
BOOTH: Zack has complete access to the lab. He arranged for the expl*si*n himself.
BRENNAN: It's Zack. He's the k*ll, Booth. It's Zack.
(Cut to: Regional Medical Center - ICU- Cam is sitting in a chair reading to Zack.)
CAM: (reading) The theory of conditional expressions is a non-profound generalization of propositional calculus.
ZACK: What's it say after "boolean forms"?
CAM: (she laughs) Well, there's a little thing that looks like a Japanese stool then a B with a tail and a fat fish. Does this makes sense to you?
ZACK: It doesn't to you?
(Cam laughs)
BOOTH: Cam. I'm gonna need the room.
(Cam turns to see Booth and Brennan in the doorway. Her face falls when she realizes why they're there. She looks back at Zack and then gets out of the chair and starts to head to the door.)
CAM: (to Booth and Brennan) I'm sorry, but I have to ask. Are you absolutely certain because-
(Booth and Brennan nod their heads, solemnly, in confirmation.)
CAM: (sighs) I did not see that coming.
(Cam leaves the room)
ZACK: You looked at the mandible.
BRENNAN: You had to know I'd see it eventually.
ZACK: I didn't foresee the extent of my injuries. I was going to sneak out of here but -
BRENNAN: Your friends never left your side.
BOOTH: And you intended to steal the jaw bone and add it to the silver skeleton.
BRENNAN: But you designed the expl*si*n. You must have known exactly how big it would be.
ZACK: Hodgins argued with me. He stood too close. The delay allowed the thermoplastic to reach the boiling point and as a result, the expl*si*n was three times more powerful than I calculated.
BRENNAN: You must have known how badly you'd be injured.
ZACK: Yes.
BOOTH: Who's Gormogon, Zack?
ZACK: That's not what he's called.
BOOTH: Then what is he called.
ZACK: The Master.
BRENNAN: And you're his apprentice?
BOOTH: I need a name.
ZACK: I can't tell you. The apprentice is expendable. I'm expendable.
BOOTH: Who is he?
BRENNAN: Zack responds to logic, Booth.
BOOTH: Really? Cause I'd love to hear the logic of k*ll and eating people to change the world.
ZACK: The Master's logic is irrefutable.
BOOTH: Irrefutable?! I saw him choking a child at the bottom of a pool.
ZACK: If you knew what I know, you'd understand. You'd be proud of me.
BRENNAN: I've always been proud of you, Zack. I've never met anyone more rational or intelligent. But there's a fault in your logic.
ZACK: With all due respect, you aren't cognizant of his logic.
BRENNAN: Assumption #1: Secret societies exist.
ZACK: Accepted. Hodgins has been explaining this to me for years.
BRENNAN: Assumption #2: The human experience is adversely affected by secret societies.
ZACK: Accepted.
BRENNAN: Assumption #3: Attacking and k*ll members of secret societies will have an ameliorating effect on the human experience.
ZACK: Accepted.
BRENNAN: All of your assumptions are built upon a first principle, Zack. To wit: The historical human experience, as a whole, is more important than a single person's life.
ZACK: Yes.
BRENNAN: Yet, you risked it all so you wouldn't hurt Hodgins.
(Zack lets this sink in and realizes that she is right, his logic was flawed. Brennan puts her forehead against his, as a single tear rolls down his cheek.)
ZACK: There's - You are correct. There is an inconsistency in my reasoning.
BOOTH: Bones, I need a name.
BRENNAN: We know.
ZACK: He first approached me three months ago at a symposium on burning plasma diagnostics.
BOOTH: Zack, I need to know who this guy is. I need to go get him. Now.
ZACK: I don't know his name. I've never known his name but I've been to his house. I was blind folded when he first took me there.
(As Zack narrates the directions, Booth and a team of FBI members are seen following them.)
ZACK: But I remember every turn he took and I was able to estimate his speed. So when he brought me home, I found it on a map. It's in Bedding Ridge on a street called Savoy Crescent. It's a big place, almost as big as Hodgins' house but run down. There's a flight of stairs at the back - outside. There's a blue door. It'll be locked but there's a key hidden in the crevice to the left of the door just above eye level. You will see a hallway. If he's found someone, you will smell meat cooking and that's how you'll know you're getting close. (We see a room. Lit candles are everywhere. Gormogon is in the middle of the room, sitting at a table, cutting a piece of "meat" on his plate.) One last door, and you'll have to be fast. He'll be at the bottom of an incline in the floor. (Booth and the Agents arrive in the room and see Gormogon.) He'll have a kn*fe. He's very fast. And he's very strong.
(Gormogon bears his teeth and throws the kn*fe at one of the FBI Agents. Booth immediately sh**t him square in the chest and it sends him flying into the table. Gormogon is dead.)
(Cut to: Regional Medical Center - ICU- Caroline and other people are talking to Zack while the rest of the group stands outside the window watching.)
CAM: (she sees Booth arrive) Did you get him?
BOOTH: Got him.
BRENNAN: Who was he, Booth?
SWEETS: Nobody. Am I right? He was nobody. An invisible man, angry at history for not seeing him.
ANGELA: Yeah, for a nobody, he sure wrecked a lot of lives.
(Caroline and the others come out of Zack's room)
CAROLINE: Zack confessed to k*ll the Lobbyist - stabbed him in the heart.
ANGELA: He never ate anybody?
CAROLINE: No.
ANGELA: So how did this happen?
BRENNAN: Logic.
CAROLINE: No. I'm sorry, Cherie. That might cut it with you eggheads, but this happened the way this always happens: a strong personality finds a weak personality and takes advantage. I hope we fry the guy.
BOOTH: That's not gonna be necessary.
CAM: Good riddance, I say.
HODGINS: What'll happen to Zack?
CAROLINE: I cut a deal. He pleads guilty, cooperates, and we find him non compos mentis. That way, Zack is moved to a secure psychiatric facility instead of going to prison.
SWEETS: No, that won't stand up. Zack isn't actually insane.
(Booth grabs Sweets arm and pulls him away from the group)
SWEETS: What?
BOOTH: Sweets? You're gonna give this one to Bones. You understand?
SWEETS: I understand.
BOOTH: Good.
(He pats him on the shoulder and they head back to join the group. Brennan places her hand and head against the window as the rest of the group is with her, looking in on Zack.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Lounge Area. Everyone is sitting around the table. Hodgins places a box on it.)
BOOTH: Probably could have spent more time with Zack. You know, get him to see the world a bit more.
HODGINS: All those things I say about secret societies and conspiracy's, I never knew he was listening.
ANGELA: I should have gotten him a girlfriend.
CAM: Ugh. You know what? The hell with Zack. He's an adult, he made his choices. People are who they are. There is nothing any of us could have done for the guy.
BRENNAN: We love Zack, Cam.
CAM: Yeah, well he k*ll someone. He deserves to be locked up for the rest of his life.
SWEETS: I feel I must point out that what Dr. Saroyan just said is obviously her way of handling grief. She doesn't mean it. Quite the opposite, in fact.
CAM: I knew the day I met Zack, he'd cause me pain.
(After a few moments of silence, Booth gets up to try to break the ice.)
BOOTH: So, what do ya got there, Hodgins?
HODGINS: (looking into the box) This is, uh, Zack's favorite stuff.
ANGELA: Well, what are we gonna do with it.
CAM: Where he's going, they might actually let him have it.
(As items are pulled out and commented on, Brennan is watching but something is obviously bothering her. Booth pulls out a harmonica then Cam pulls out a trophy that says, "Zack Addy - King of the Lab")
CAM: Oh, I got him that.
HODGINS: Yeah, thanks. He waved that in my face every day. (taking a book out of the box) Pocket Kama Sutra. I gave him this so he'd stop asking Booth sex questions.
(Booth plays the harmonica.)
BOOTH: Got Zack this before he went to Iraq.
ANGELA: (pulling out a piece of paper) Hey, I drew this for him.
(It's a place mat with a caricature of Zack. It says "ZACK "King of the Lab")
(Booth pulls a letter out of the box)
SWEETS: It's interesting that all of his favorite things are objects you people gave to him.
BRENNAN: I never gave him anything.
ANGELA: Brennan, he totally loved you. I mean, as much as he was capable.
BRENNAN: (getting up) But I never gave him anything.
(She leaves and Angela starts after her until...)
BOOTH: Angela.
(Booth then follows after Brennan who is sitting on the stairs, head in her hands, when he finally catches up to her. He sits down next to her and starts reading the letter that he had pulled out of the box earlier.)
BOOTH: (reading from the letter) "Dear Mr. Addy. It is my pleasure to offer you the post of my intern in Forensic Anthropology. I choose you from hundreds of applicants because of your knowledge, your desire to learn and because I feel you will find a home here." (he sets the letter in the envelope) I think you gave him something great, Bones.
(Booth hands her the letter. She takes it and then places her head on his shoulder. He places his head against hers as the screen fades to black.)
END.
