"The Doctor in the Den"
Episode 4x18 / Production 4x12
Airdate: April 2, 2009
Written By: Janet Lin & Karine Rosenthal
Directed by: Ian Toynton
Transcribed by: Sabrina_bay
Disclaimer: The characters, plotlines, quotes, etc. included here are owned by Hart Hanson, all rights reserved. This transcript is not authorized or endorsed by Hart Hanson or Fox.
TEASER
(Rock Creek Wild Life Park - A vehicle drives through grass lands past zebras, elephants. It stops near a tiger. Bill and Trysta, employees at the park get out of vehicle)
TRYSTA: These tigers eat better than I do.
BILL: He. Yesterday's food is still here.
TRYSTA: And the day before's. I don't think Matilda's moved in two days. I hope she's not sick.
BILL: Maybe there is something wrong. Should we call the vet?
(Matilda, the tiger, gets up and walks over to a bloody, half eaten piece of lower leg with the shoe still attached. She picks it up and reveals the rest of the body, which now is mostly bones with little flesh still in tact.)
(Bill and Trysta run back to the vehicle.)
(Cut to: A different Park Vehicle - Brennan and Book are in the back of the vehicle.)
PARK EMPLOYEE 1: Let's Go.
DRIVER: Thanks.
BOOTH: I was here last weekend with Parker. They got monkeys swinging free - right over there (Points). Do you think we have time?
BRENNAN: Booth, we're here to recover a set of remains.
BOOTH: Come on, Bones. You gotta take time to smell the primates.
BRENNAN: Why? They are malodorous and they throw their excrement.
(Cut to: Melinda, the tiger, pacing in a cage near the body. Booth and Brennan approach the remains.)
BOOTH: Who wanders around in an animal park?
BRENNAN: Someone with extremely poor judgment.
BOOTH: Ha, guess no one told this guy it's not a petting zoo. (Brennan gives him a look.) Nevermind.
BRENNAN: Flesh has been gnawed and baked in the sun. But the nasal root suggests a black male. Over six feet tall.
BOOTH: According to, uh, Parker's big book of animals, they can pounce at 35 miles an hour and leap 30 feet.
BRENNAN: The tiger fed on the flesh and internal organs before he started cleaning the bones.
BOOTH: You know, I'm thinking the v*ctim wandered away from his car, he was drunk, and he ended up in this area. Same thing happened to a guy last year in the giraffe section.
BRENNAN: Giraffes are herbivores. They don't eat people.
BOOTH: That part is different. The guy broke his arm. Did you know that giraffes can weigh up to two tons?
BRENNAN: Yes, everyone knows that.
BOOTH: And they sleep less than two hours a day.
BRENNAN: That I did not know.
BOOTH: Yes, Pinky stumps the Brain.
BRENNAN: Well, I have no way of determining cause of death out here. So we should pack everything up and bring it back to the lab.
BOOTH: Pack it up!
(Cut to: Lab - Clark, Cam, Hodgins and Brennan are examining the body))
CLARK: Teeth marks on the manubrium and the sternum.
CAM: Nice to have you back Dr. Edison. Wasn't sure we'd see you again.
CLARK: Dr. Brennan assured me that I could count on a strictly professional atmosphere.
BRENNAN: I admire your focus and dedication to your work, Dr. Edison.
CLARK: Thoracolumbar fascia has been eaten.
CAM: No stomach contents for me to analyze because the tiger ate the stomach.
CLARK: Don't blame the tiger. Animals shouldn't be confined for human amusement.
HODGINS: A zoo hater?
CLARK: and a vegan.
HODGINS: Oh, Someone's revealing their plant-based personal life.
CLARK: It relates to the case.
BRENNAN: Zoos have many breeding programs to preserve endangered species.
CLARK: Animals bred in the zoos have weak natural instincts. They're basically just imprisoned pets.
HODGINS: Pets generally don't eat you.
BRENNAN: A common house cat will devour you before you're cold.
CLARK: The v*ctim's hyoid and spinal cord are still in tact.
BRENNAN: There are no indications of a traditional tiger throat bite or strangle hold. The tiger was not the cause of death.
CAM: I agree. Some kind of w*apon sliced along what's left of the right pelvis and thigh transecting the femoral artery. He died of a good old-fashioned bleed out.
HODGINS: There is a shoelace mixed in with the flesh.
BRENNAN: The tiger could have coughed it up, like a fur ball.
CAM: Judging from decomp and... the amount the tiger ate, I estimate time of death to be late Friday night, early Saturday.
ANGELA: (entering) Welcome back, Clark. Whoa, have you been working out?
CLARK: Excuse me?
ANGELA: You look so solid and compact.
CLARK: I believe that all conversation should relate to this man's m*rder.
HODGINS: Angela's taking a stab at celibacy.
ANGELA: Sweets thinks it will help me form more committed relationships.
HODGINS: But it just seems to rev up her libido.
CLARK: (avoiding the conversation) Chewing...has embedded particulates into the teeth marks in the medial malleolus.
ANGELA: Okay, I get it. But you're squeezable. You should thank our tiger for not eating the v*ctim's teeth. Dentals gave us an easy match.
BRENNAN: Dr. Andrew Welton.
CAM: (stunned) Are you sure?
ANGELA: Yeah, it's...it's dentals. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to ID off dentals. It's sad, huh? He's handsome. He's hot, really.
CAM: Okay, that's enough, Angela.
BRENNAN: Are you alright, Dr. Saroyan?
CAM: No. I knew Dr. Welton. We lived together for two years.
ANGELA: Oh...my god, Cam. I'm really sorry.
CAM: No...Let's just find out who k*ll him, okay? (She walks away.)
(Opening Credits)
ACT 1
(Open - Lab - upper level sitting area - Booth and Cam)
BOOTH: So, I called the hospital and Dr. Welton has been missing for two days. I'm sorry, Cam.
CAM: I haven't even seen Andrew for 10 years. It's silly for me to be reacting like this.
BOOTH: No, it's not. You know what, it was a big part of your life.
CAM: What about his daughter? Who's going to tell Michelle? Had he remarried?
BOOTH: No. No other family.
CAM: Yeah, I'm not surprised. Michelle's mom died during childbirth. I don't think Andrew could ever go through loving anyone like that again. Michelle became everything to him.
BOOTH: She must be, what, 16 now?
CAM: Yeah. What a terrible time to lose her father.
BOOTH: Look, Bones and I will get the social worker.
CAM: No, no social worker. If there's no one else, I have to do it. I'll talk to her.
BOOTH: Cam, it's been 10 years since you've seen her.
CAM: I was her mom for almost two years, Seeley. She should hear it from someone who loved her father.
(Cut to: Booth's car pulling up outside the Welton house)
BOOTH: So, you're sure you don't want us to come in with you?
CAM: No, I'll be fine.
(Cam exits the car and approaches the house. Michelle opens the door)
BRENNAN: Did Cam raise her?
BOOTH: Yup, for two years.
(Cut to: inside the house)
CAM: Camille Saroyan?
MICHELLE: And you know my dad?
CAM: You were 4 when your father and I were together. I moved away just after you turned 6. But I remember your party. You were sitting on the clown's lap while he made balloon animals. And you kept handing them to me and I had this armful of... MICHELLE (interrupting): I don't remember...and my dad's not here right now.
CAM: I know. I am working on a case with the FBI, Michelle. Could you please sit down?
(Cut to: Brennan and Booth in the car outside the house)
BRENNAN: Well, she told me she never wanted to have kids.
BOOTH: Maybe Michelle is the reason.
BRENNAN: I don't understand.
BOOTH: She loved Welton and lived with him for about two years and she raised Michelle like she was her own. And then she's been alone for all that time because she doesn't want to put herself in that position again.
BRENNAN: But that was 10 years ago.
BOOTH: For Cam there are emotional considerations here. That's why she has to be involved in the case.
BRENNAN: With us?
BOOTH: It's best that you...stay in the lab a little bit more. Just this time around.
BRENNAN: Because that's where I'm most useful. I understand. You and Cam can rely on your statistically inaccurate guts to solve the case.
BOOTH: She needs this. Just trust me on this, Bones.
(Cut to: Inside the Welton house)
MICHELLE: Last time I saw him was Friday night. He was getting ready for some hospital party at the Animal Park. I spent the weekend at my friend's. I'm sure that he's still at the hospital.
CAM: Michelle, we've found your father. I'm very sorry to have to tell you that he's...he passed away.
MICHELLE: What? No. No! He was fine. He was fine. I saw him two days ago. You're wrong.
CAM: I'm so sorry, honey. Is anyone staying with you?
MICHELLE: Um, our housekeeper, Mrs. Jenks, but she... What happened? He was healthy.
CAM: We believe he was k*ll.
MICHELLE: What!? Oh my god. Oh my god. Look, I don't even know you, okay? Why don't you just do your job and find out who did this to my dad?
MRS. JENKS: Is everything alright?
MICHELLE: My dad...She says that my dad has been m*rder.
MRS. JENKS: Oh, good god. How could you tell her alone? Why didn't you call me?
CAM: I thought she'd remember me. I was a friend of the family.
MRS. JENKS: I think you should go.
CAM: I know this is difficult, but I have to ask a few questions.
MRS. JENKS: Now?
CAM: In order to pursue an investigation...
MICHELLE (cutting her off): What? What do you want to know?
CAM: Did your father have any enemies? Any difficult relationships?
MICHELLE: No. Everybody loved him. You said that you knew him. You should know that.
(Cut to: Booth's Car - Cam gets into the car)
BOOTH: How'd it go?
CAM: You should have brought a social worker. She...didn't remember me at all.
(They drive off)
(Cut to: the Lab - Clark, Brennan and Hodgins examine the wound.)
CLARK: Look at the pelvis.
BRENNAN: Surface lacerations to the periosteum of the pelvic bone.
HODGINS: Those aren't bone chips. Whatever caused the laceration embedded something in the bone. Look at the injuries near the femoral artery. It looks like there are particles of mica in here.
CLARK: The scarring of the ilium indicates that something gouged the v*ctim. I'll start testing possible w*apon.
CAM: (entering) Do you have anything?
BRENNAN: Well, a thorough investigation takes time.
CAM: Let's not take too much time.
CLARK: We're being so thorough that we...
CAM: (interupting) There's a k*ll out there, Dr. Edison, so be thorough and fast. I have the results of Weldon's tox screen. There were opiates in his bl*od. Hydrocodone and carisoprodol.
HODGINS: Perhaps he was self-medicating.
CAM: That doesn't sound like Andrew.
BRENNAN: You haven't seen him in years.
CLARK: These are very high levels of opiates to have in your system if you're a surgeon.
HODGINS: It's not uncommon for doctors to have substance abuse issues.
CAM: Andrew was not a drug abuser. Look for physical indicators that might warrant opiate use. (pause) I am meeting Booth at the hospital if you have any information, which I hope you will. (Cam walks out.)
Cut to: Outside the Hospital. Cam and Booth enter.
CAM: I took Michelle to ballet class and parent/teacher conferences. I read her to sleep. When I saw her and it all came back. I thought it would for her. Some of it at least.
BOOTH: Look...Parker's seven and he can't even remember how to put on his underwear.
CAM: Yeah, but he knows you. He knows what you've done for him.
BOOTH: It's been ten years. People move on. It was just a relationship that didn't work out.
CAM: It's a family, Seeley. A family that didn't work out.
DR. MAURA BAILEY: (turning around and seeing Cam and Booth) Camille.
CAM: Maura. It's been a long time.
BAILEY: It's horrible what happened.
CAM: Yeah. This is Special Agent Booth. Dr. Bailey's Roosevelt's Chief Administrator.
BOOTH: Dr. Bailey. I would like to ask you a few questions about Dr. Welton.
BAILEY: Of course. Let's find some privacy.
(Bailey walks. Cam and Booth follow behind her)
CAM: (aside to Booth only) We were both residents here. It was a really competitive environment.
BAILEY: Does Michelle know?
CAM: Yes, I saw her this morning.
BAILEY: Oh, Poor kid. You two were pretty close as I remember.
BOOTH: Dr. Bailey, we believe that Dr. Welton was k*ll at the benefit on Friday night.
BAILEY: At the animal park?
CAM: He was found in the tiger habitat. We need a list of everyone who attended the benefit: staff, caterers, park personnel assigned to the event.
BAILEY: Of course.
BOOTH: Did Dr. Welton have any enemies?
BAILEY: The staff loved him. In the spirit of full disclosure, though, you should know that Dr. Welton and I had our fair share of disagreements. It's an occupational hazard.
CAM: You always did like being in charge.
BAILEY: I am in charge now, Camille. Andrew and I had policy disagreements, but I admired him. He was the best cardiovascular surgeon I knew.
BOOTH: Any other patients, people inside the hospital...?
BAILEY: Malpractice suits are par for the course in any hospital. And we are fighting 15 right now.
BOOTH: I'm going to need a list of all those lawsuits naming Dr. Welton.
BAILEY: Of course.
CAM: Andrew usually made his rounds at night. Who would have seen him before he went to the benefit?
BAILEY: You should check with the nurses in the Cardiac unit.
(Cut to: Nurse's Station in the Cardiac Unit - Roosevelt Hospital)
NURSE 1 (GRETCHEN KUJAWA): Dr. Welton was the best. Everyone loved him.
NURSE 2 (NANCY LAUDER): He lived for his patients.
NURSE 3 (LAUREN DOBBS): And his daughter.
NURSE 2 (NANCY): Dr. W made his rounds before the benefit. I helped him change a chest tube. I had to push him aside so his tux didn't get dirty. Other than that, it was like any other night.
BOOTH: And no arguments with patients or family members?
NURSE 2 (NANCY): Dr. Welton? No.
CAM: Do you know if he was taking anyone to the benefit?
NURSE 1 (GRETCHEN): I told him he could take me. ... He looked like James Bond.
NURSE 2 (NANCY): You never knew who Dr. Welton was dating. He wasn't the type to settle down.
CAM: Right.
(Cut to: the Lab. Angela enters Hodgins' area)
ANGELA: How's it going?
HODGINS: Hey.
ANGELA: Ooh. What is that smell? Are you wearing cologne?
HODGINS: It's urine. I found traces of ureic acid on the v*ctim's clothing. It was the pheromones you found pleasing.
ANGELA: Yeah, yeah. Uh, the pheromones in tiger urine?
HODGINS: Well, I assume it's tiger urine. The cat was probably marking it's territory.
ANGELA: I was turned on by tiger urine?
HODGINS: HaHa. Celibacy isn't easy, Ang.
ANGELA: Tell me about it. I don't know why Sweets thinks this is going to help form more stable relationships. Sex is the glue. We were like epoxy.
HODGINS: Sometimes relationships need more than just sex.
ANGELA: Okay. Okay, I get it. I wasn't wrong about Clark though, was I? He's cute. And he's built.
HODGINS: Yeah. Not too comfortable with this part of the conversation.
ANGELA: I'm just saying, I'm allowed to look, right? And remember? 'Member?
HODGINS: Yeah. You should join a gym. Go for a run to burn off some of your excess...whatever it is. I really need to get back to my... ANGELA: Urine.
HODGINS: Yeah.
(Cut to: Lab - Autopsy Room - Brennan enters to speak with Cam)
BRENNAN: I found nodules of ossified cartilage on Welton's thumbs between the metacarpals and carpals. He was suffering from synovial chondromatosis.
CAM: He was in pain. That would explain the opiates. I also found ibuprofen, which he would've taken to reduce the inflammation.
BRENNAN: The bony growths in his wrists would have caused him pain and severely restricted his mobility. It would have been very dangerous for him to perform surgery in his condition.
CAM: Well, he wouldn't have done it. Not Andrew.
BRENNAN: You can't know that. People change in ten years.
CAM: Not someone's nature.
BRENNAN: We're scientists. We can't quantify or rely on our emotions. They're arbitrary and indeterminate.
CAM: We know people through our feelings, Dr. Brennan. You trust Booth because of what you feel.
BRENNAN: No, I trust Booth because of past actions.
CAM: And faith in the future. I'm sorry, but feelings are important. Even to you.
(phone rings)
CAM: (answering phone) Saroyan.
BOOTH: A guy named Brandon Casey filed a malpractice suit after his wife died during surgery on Welton's operating table. After the suit was arbitrated in Welton's favor, Welton filed a restraining order against Casey.
CAM: You think Casey k*ll Welton?
BOOTH: Well, I don't know, but I do know that Casey bought a ticket to the benefit.
BRENNAN: Why would someone who sued the hospital pay to go to its benefit?
Act 2
(Open: Interrogation Room - Booth interrogates Brandon Casey - Dr. Sweets is observing behind the glass.)
CASEY: I, uh, don't understand why I'm here.
BOOTH: Your wife died during surgery performed by Dr. Andrew Welton.
CASEY: Yes, that was two years ago. She was only 32 years old. She had a congenital heart defect.
BOOTH: And yet he had to take out a restraining order against you?
CASEY: I was crazy when Alex died. I needed to blame someone.
BOOTH: And you attacked him, which is why he had to take out a restraining order. Which I get because, you know...got to let the anger go.
CASEY: I needed to find forgiveness, even compassion for the doctor.
SWEETS: (from behind the glass) He seems sincere, but he still violated the restraining order.
BOOTH: And yet you went to the benefit last Friday night ignoring the restraining order?
CASEY: I went to apologize. I had accused this man of m*rder. I owed Dr. Welton an apology.
BOOTH: And what did he say to you after you apologized?
CASEY: Well, we didn't get a chance to talk. He was arguing with a woman. They were off to the side, really going at it. I didn't want to get in the middle of it. Okay...what's going on here? Did something happen to Dr. Welton?
BOOTH: Yeah. He was m*rder Friday night.
CASEY: Uh. Oh my God.
BOOTH: Do you know what this woman looked like?
CASEY: No. I don't....
BOOTH: What she was wearing?
CASEY: I don't know.
BOOTH: Was she tall? Was she short? Nothing?
CASEY: I'm sorry. I don't remember.
SWEETS: (from behind the glass) It's possible, Booth. People don't retain what they don't think is important.
BOOTH: Great.
CASEY: Beg your pardon.
BOOTH: Nothing.
SWEETS: But! The memories are still formed. See if he'll agree to hypnosis.
(Cut to: the Lab - Brennan and Clark are examining the body.)
BRENNAN: The gouge that extends from the ilium to the femur is deep and seems to have torn through the bone.
CLARK: I found wounds on the proximal phalanx of the right fifth digit as well as the ulnar tuberosity.
BRENNAN: Defensive wounds.
CLARK: Yes. Caused by blunt force.
ANGELA: (entering) Hey. I used the measurements of the injuries to run different scenarios on possible w*apon.
CLARK: And you did this while jogging?
ANGELA: Well, yeah...I was burning off a little of my extra desire on the way to work, sweet pea.
CLARK: Is sweet pea an appropriate workplace moniker?
ANGELA: Don't worry, Clark, I won't eat you. Not that I'm not tempted.
CLARK: Thank God.
BRENNAN: Most men would be flattered by Angela's sexual interest in them.
CLARK: Well, my sexual needs are well taken care of. Thank you.
ANGELA: Really?
CLARK: Your results, Ms. Montenegro
(They move over to look at the computer)
ANGELA: The force that would take to inflict injuries this severe would dictate either an extremely strong person over seven feet tall wielding a two-foot long metal pole.
CLARK: Someone at the party would have noticed a giant.
ANGELA: Or...Someone between 5'7" and 5'11" wielding a five-foot metal pole with a ten-centimeter diameter.
BRENNAN: A metal pole of that length and diameter would be consistent with the defensive injuries we found. Now we have to determine what gouged the bone.
ANGELA: Yeah, well, I'm going to need more information for that.
SWEETS: (entering) Angela? Can I borrow you for a little while?
ANGELA: To do what with? Sorry, that just popped out. I needed a longer run.
SWEETS: Yeah, I understand. I am going to be interviewing a witness who can't remember a suspect and I need a sketch artist.
ANGELA: Oh. (turns to look at Brennan)
BRENNAN: We're finished.
ANGELA: Cool. All yours, Sweets.
SWEETS: Alright.

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Cut to: an FBI room for the hypnosis)
SWEETS: You are relaxed, Mr. Casey. Totally relaxed and completely aware of your surroundings. Can you tell me my name?
CASEY: Dr. Sweets.
SWEETS: Yes. And we are here together at the animal park, at the hospital benefit.
CASEY: Yes, there are so many people here. And I keep missing the hors d'oeuvres.
ANGELA: HaHaHa. You've got to be kidding me.
SWEETS: (to Angela) Shh. (to Casey) Have you spotted Dr. Welton yet?
CASEY: I know he's here someplace.
(Cut to: Casey, Sweets and Angela "at the benefit" in Casey's memory)
SWEETS: (sounds far away) How do you feel Mr. Casey? Are you angry? You thought this man k*ll your wife.
SWEETS: No, no, I was wrong. I'm looking forward to seeing the doctor and making amends. Would you like some champagne?
SWEETS: No thanks.
ANGELA: Absolutely. (Angela picks up a glass off of a waiter' platter)
SWEETS: Alright. Have you spotted Dr. Welton yet?
(Cut to: FBI room)
CASEY: No, I keep trying to get something to eat. I didn't have lunch.
ANGELA: I'd like something to eat, too.
SWEETS: Okay, here comes a waitress. (starts to sound far away - Cuts to: them in Casey's memory again) She's giving you what you want.
CASEY: Thank you.
SWEETS: Now, can you, can you see the doctor?
CASEY: Yes. He's over by the path.
SWEETS: What path?
CASEY: The path that leads to the animals. I hear there's no fence. What if the animals can get out?
SWEETS: Don't worry. You're perfectly safe, Mr. Casey.
(Casey sees an elephant, zebra, emu and giraffe mingling with them and the other guests. He looks concerned.)
(Cut to: FBI room - reality) The animals won't hurt you. They are very friendly.
CASEY: Yes. Yes, they are. (A giraffe and zebra are seen walking in front of Casey, Angela and Sweets)
SWEETS: You can see Dr. Welton very clearly now. Can't you? Is he alone?
CASEY: No. He's with a woman.
SWEETS: And they're arguing?
CASEY: Yes. She's...she's yelling at him. He's trying to calm her down. She's pushing him.
SWEETS: Look closer. Tell me what she looks like.
CASEY: No, I need to move away. This is embarrassing.
SWEETS: No, no, no, no. Not yet. Look at the woman. You can see her clearly now, can't you?
CASEY: Yes.
(Cut to: FBI room - reality)
ANGELA: Okay, so let's sit here and we'll sip a little champagne and...(Cut to: back in Casey's memory) you can describe her to me. In detail.
CASEY: She's about 50. Oval face, strong features, high cheekbones, hazel eyes, pointed nose... ANGELA: (to a giraffe) Uh, dude, you're blocking my light.
(Cut to: Roosevelt Hospital - Booth and Cam question Dr. Bailey)
BOOTH: Do you recognize this woman, Dr. Bailey?
BAILEY: Of course I do. (walks to show them a portrait hanging on the wall) This is Diane Annenburg. She's one of our biggest donors.
BOOTH: We have a witness who saw this woman arguing with Dr. Welton the night of the benefit.
BAILEY: A woman that generous is used to getting her own way, but she's not a k*ll.
CAM: She wouldn't have been happy knowing that your best surgeon was disabled.
Why didn't you mention that Andrew had synovial chondromatosis when we spoke?
BAILEY: Because it didn't affect the investigation.
BOOTH: If you think about it, the hospital would've been ruined if it came out that Dr. Welton was operating when he shouldn't have been. Annenburg would've looked like a fool.
BAILEY: I know it's been a while, Camille, but you knew Andrew. He would never jeopardize a patient. We agreed he would only supervise during surgery until he decided what sort of treatment to follow.
CAM: Is there any other reason Annenburg might have been angry with Andrew?
She seems a little old for him.
BAILEY: Her son, Rick, is in his last year of med school. He applied to Roosevelt for his surgical residency. Andrew ran that admissions committee.
BOOTH: Did he reject her son?
BAILEY: He did. We supported that decision.
BOOTH: Looks like we have one unhappy mom.
Act 3
(Open: Booth's office - Booth questions Mrs. Annenburg.)
BOOTH: So, you were seen arguing with Dr. Welton the night he died.
MRS. ANNENBURG: At the benefit? That wasn't an argument.
BOOTH: Then what was it?
MRS.ANNENBURG: I was expressing my disappointment with Dr. Welton's decision to exclude my son from the residency program at Roosevelt.
BOOTH: Money doesn't make you a god, Mrs. Annenburg.
MRS. ANNENBURG: My son should've been accepted because he's deserving. Richard never wanted to be anything but a doctor. He worked for it. He finished second in his class. Obviously...Dr. Welton had some sort of personal issue with my son or with me.
BOOTH: Right, and removing him would solve all your problems.
MRS. ANNENBURG: Yes. I wanted him removed from the Board of Admissions. I-I do feel that my generosity entitles me to some sort of influence. But I did not want Dr. Welton k*ll.
BOOTH: Well, I can only imagine that Richard was pretty angry with Welton, too. A young man like that who's used to getting whatever he wants might lose control.
MRS.ANNENBURG: Don't be ridiculous.
BOOTH: Was your son at the benefit that night?
MRS ANNENBURG: Richard is a good boy, Agent Booth.
BOOTH: Thank you for your time, Mrs. Annenburg.
(Cut to: Lab - Brennan and Clark. Cam enters.)
CAM: (enters) Anything of value yet?
BRENNAN: We are cataloguing injuries. I thought you would be with Booth.
CAM: Questioning people isn't really my thing. Most of the time I just want to b*at them until they tell me what I want to hear.
BRENNAN: I know. It gets frustrating, and hitting can often be quite effective.
EDISON: And you both work with the Justice Department?
BRENNAN: Yes.
EDISON: Ironic... BRENNAN: How is Michelle? The loss of a father can be quite devastating.
CAM: I haven't seen her again. I imagine Child Services will probably be moving her to a foster home soon.
HODGINS: (entering) Those white flecks that were embedded in the pelvic bone? They're polymerized hydrocarbon from the serrated edge of a plastic kn*fe. Seems our v*ctim was attacked in the groin with disposable cutlery.
CAM: Didn't we find a blood-soaked shoelace in the remains?
BRENNAN: Yes. We assumed that the tiger coughed it up.
EDISON: Under normal circumstances, a plastic kn*fe could barely cut flesh.
CAM: But if there was already an open wound caused by whatever punctured the artery... BRENNAN: Then a plastic kn*fe could be used to enlarge the opening.
HODGINS: Why? Make him bleed out faster?
CAM: No. Someone was trying to make the bleeding stop.
BRENNAN: The puncture wounds were too high for a tourniquet, so they used the kn*fe to gain access to the vascular area.
CAM: The shoelace was probably used to tie off the femoral artery, but the procedure failed.
EDISON: Who would attack him and then try to save him?
BRENNAN: Someone with a medical background.
(Cut to: Interrogation room - Booth interrogates Richard Annenburg.)
BOOTH: So, uh, tell me about Dr. Welton.
RICHARD ANNENBURG: He was a...good man. A good doctor. It's terrible what happened to him.
BOOTH: I heard he made the mistake of getting between you and something you've been working for your whole life.
RICHARD: My mother tell you that?
BOOTH: She said you wanted to be a doctor.
RICHARD: She's right.
BOOTH: Roosevelt's got some of the best residencies. I can see why you wouldn't want anything to get in your way.
RICHARD: What does that mean?
BOOTH: Well, you see, the suspect that we're looking for had motive, opportunity and a medical background. Does that sound like anyone in this room?
RICHARD: You think I k*ll Dr. Welton? I want to save lives, Agent Booth, that's why I'm a doctor.
BOOTH: Someone tried to save Dr. Welton. You know, they tried to stop the bleeding after they attacked him.
RICHARD: I didn't even want the residency. I begged Dr. Welton to reject me.
BOOTH: After all that hard work. Now why would you do something like that?
RICHARD: To get away from my mother. She seems all benevolent, but she's a control freak. And Dr. Welton, he understood that I had to get away from her to be the kind of doctor I wanted to be.
BOOTH: So he stood up fro you, even though he might lose his job?
RICHARD: Yeah. Look, you don't have to believe me. If somebody tried to stop the bleeding, then they'd be covered in bl*od themselves. Take my clothes. You can run all the tests you want.
(Cut to: Porch of the Welton house)
CAM: I just wanted to find out how you were doing. I know how difficult this must be for you.
MICHELLE: Aren't you supposed to be finding out who did this to my dad?
CAM: And I will. I swear to you. I know what a good man he was. And what a great father. (shows Michelle a picture of the three of them) You don't remember?
MICHELLE: Yeah. Yeah, I remember. I remember that you said you loved me and that we were a family. And then you just left.
CAM: The reason I left... was between your father and me. It had nothing to do with you, Michelle.
MICHELLE: Yeah. That's what he always said. But if you care so much, why don't you explain it to me right now?
CAM: I don't know, if he didn't talk to you about it, I... MICHELLE: I waited for you. I looked out the window for weeks waiting on you to come home. You don't say that you love somebody and then just walk out like that.
CAM: Your father and I were going to get married, Michelle. But your father, he... (she pauses)
MICHELLE: What?
CAM: He was still seeing other women. Even after we were engaged. And I tried to work through it. I loved him. I still do. But after your mother...I don't think your father could ever commit like that again. And that wasn't something I could live with.
MICHELLE: Maybe, because he knew that you weren't good enough. Maybe he was just waiting for the right woman.
CAM: Maybe. I'm...I'm sorry I brought it up. I never stopped thinking about you, Michelle. And if there's anything... MICHELLE: (interrupting) I don't need anything from you. Just go. Leave me alone. Go!
(Cam picks up her bag and walks off the porch)
(Michelle picks the picture of the three of them and looks at it. She sobs.)
Act 4
(Open: Lab - Angela, Cam and Brennan sit around table in upstairs lounge)
ANGELA: So what did Michelle say to you?
CAM: She said, uh, that I wasn't good enough for her father and that was why he saw other women.
BRENNAN: Welton cheated on you?
CAM: That's why I left.
BRENNAN: Did that bother you?
ANGELA: Sweetie, how many times do I have to tell you that most people don't like to be cheated on?
CAM: The only people who don't mind have just given up.
ANGELA: (jumping in) Or are very, very rational and above those archaic notions of monogamy.
CAM: Right, yes, of course. I'm not quite evolved enough.
BRENNAN: Excuse me, this is not my area of expertise, but if Welton cheated on you, he may have been cheating on other women.
CAM: Probably was. The only person he ever was faithful to was Michelle.
ANGELA: Well, there you go. He was playing the field and somebody probably nuked him for it.
BRENNAN: Well, how do you know?
ANGELA: Because. Despite the fact that I would love to have my legs wrapped around one right now, men are awful.
HODGINS: Hey. (Cam, Angela and Brennan glare at him) Whoa. What'd I do?
CAM: You're a man.
HODGINS: I have information.
BRENNAN: Go ahead.
HODGINS: The ureic acid on the v*ctim's clothing, it's feline, but it's not tiger pee. Sediment composition and pH level suggest that it was from a lion.
CAM: Are you aware that lionesses do all the hunting?
BRENNAN: Yes, the males simply copulate and eat what the females catch.
ANGELA: And when they get cranky, they eat the cubs. Mm-hmm, men.
HODGINS: Wow. Before I flee for my life, the particles I found in the wounds around the femoral artery, the ones I thought might be mica? They're scales.
BRENNAN: Hmm, fish?
HODGINS: No, snake. I can maybe have a species by tomorrow.
ANGELA: Hey. You wanna stay and have a drink?
(Cam snaps her fingers at Angela)
ANGELA: Oh. Yeah. We hate men.
HODGINS: I'm going to go...now.
ANGELA: He does have a terrific ass.
BRENNAN: Perhaps, that's why you're always making him leave.
(Cut to: Lab - Forensics platform)
BRENNAN: No lions?
HODGINS: None in the whole park. There are tigers.
BOOTH: How much difference can there be between lion urine and tiger urine?
BRENNAN: There are no stripes in tiger urine.
BOOTH: I didn't say there are.
BRENNAN: I just know how much you love cartoons.
HODGINS: Tom and Jerry?
BOOTH: Bugs and Daffy.
HODGINS: All right, now, this is the Capybara enclosure. (brings up a picture of a capybara on the Wildlife Park) Now, they use crystallized lion urine around the edges of this enclosure to keep the capybaras inside.
Then, look at this. (Hodgins brings up another picture)
BRENNAN: The reptile shed.
BOOTH: (going up behind Brennan) Snakes!
BRENNAN: Ahhh. What is that?
HODGINS: It's a snake hook. It's used for picking them up, but keeping them at a safe distance.
BRENNAN: That hook could have severed the artery and deposited the snake scales in the gouge in the femur.
BOOTH: So, he was k*ll around that area with something like that thing.
BRENNAN: That is very imprecise.
BOOTH: Works for me.
(Cut to: Angela's office - Clark enters with Dr. Nora Oldhouse.)
EDISON: Angela?
ANGELA: Clark...Hello.
EDISON: I would like you to meet my romantic partner, Dr. Nora Oldhouse.
ANGELA: Hello, romantic partner.
EDISON: Yes, we're romantically involved...together. She and I.
NORA: Clark, she heard you.
EDISON: Nora, these are not like regular people. It's best to be very, very clear with them. Nora is a tenured Professor of Women's Studies at Georgetown. And a vegan.
ANGELA: Could you be any more politically correct. Or cute?
EDISON: See? See what she just did there. I mean, it's harassment, baby. Hey, we're in a monogamous relationship. I need you to back up off me, lady.
NORA: I understand you've recently decided to be celibate, Ms. Montenegro?
ANGELA: Uh, temporarily, yeah.
NORA: That can have some physiological repercussions.
ANGELA: Tell me about it. But unbelievable fantasies.
NORA: Did you know that women in the 19th century would visit their physicians for anxiety and hysteria? And as treatment the doctor would provide manual sexual stimulation to the women and the subsequent orgasm provided -
EDISON: (interrupting) Oh, God! Nora, what are you doing?
ANGELA: I don't think that my insurance covers that.
NORA: Well, I'm just saying that these women weren't getting what they needed at home, you understand? In the absence of a sex partner, there are other alternatives.
EDISON: (vehemently adding in) To me. Alternatives to me.
NORA: Vibrators, other sex toys.
EDISON: Oh, God, oh God, why am I here for this? I don't need to be hearing this, excuse me.
ANGELA: He's very sweet.
NORA: I know. It was nice to meet you.
ANGELA: you, too, thank you for the tip. (Nora starts to walk away) Hey, Dr. Oldhouse? I wasn't wrong about Clark, was I? He's tightly wound, but-
NORA: Dynamite, Ms. Montenegro. A briefcase b*mb.
ANGELA: That's what I thought.
EDISON: (walking in to take Nora's arm) Baby.
(Cut to: FBI hallway - Cam and Booth walking to a meeting room)
CAM: When I was talking with Ang and Brennan last night about men, it occurred to me that Andrew probably didn't change much when it came to women.
BOOTH: Come on, it's been 10 years. You think Andrew was still visiting the same place?
CAM: Andrew was set in his routines and if I remember Langston correctly, this guy didn't miss a thing. (Cam and Booth enter the meeting room.) Hiya, Langston.
LANGSTON: I know you.
CAM: It's been awhile.
LANGSTON: Three-zero-one. Wednesday afternoons with Dr. Welton. Noisy afternoons. You always left smiling.
BOOTH: Hey.
LANGSTON: You were a nurse at the hospital.
BOOTH: She was a doctor. Okay, and now she's a Federal Coroner. So a little respect, okay, Rumpelstiltskin?
LANGSTON: Coroner, huh? Somebody die?
CAM: Yeah, Langston, Dr. Welton.
LANGSTON: My bet, a jealous husband. Or a jealous ex, maybe.
BOOTH: You're wearing on me, sport.
CAM: I'm gonna guess that Andrew kept coming to your motel after me.
LANGSTON: Uh, yep, he kept coming.
BOOTH: With anyone special?
LANGSTON: I don't know her name.
CAM: Describe her then.
LANGSTON: Good looking, like all of ya. Uh, tall. He liked them tall. Pretty face, sharp features. And red hair.
CAM: Red hair?
Act 5
(Open: FBI meeting room)
(Brennan puts down a snake hook on the table in front of Dr. Bailey)
BAILEY: I have no idea what that is.
BOOTH: That's the m*rder w*apon.
BRENNAN: The point of the hook tapers in a manner identical to the fatal wounds we found on the head of the femur and the pelvic bone.
BOOTH: Plus, the curved nature of the w*apon resulted in, what was that?
BRENNAN: Cortical splintering.
BOOTH: See, Dr. Brennan's people found that Dr. Welton was truck with this between two and...(looking to Brennan)
BRENNAN: Four times.
BOOTH: Four times.
BRENNAN: And then was stabbed with this. In the femoral artery.
BOOTH: Would you be willing to give us the clothes you wore the night of the benefit?
BAILEY: If you had any evidence implicating me, you'd have a warrant. I believe I'll decline.
BRENNAN: We know you had an affair with Dr. Welton.
BOOTH: Which means your husband is a suspect. We'd have to question him, too.
BAILEY: I don't appreciate your veiled attempt at blackmail.
BOOTH: (to Brennan) She thought that was veiled!
BAILEY: My position dictates that any legal dealings that concern me have to go through the hospital's attorney. I'm sure you understand.
BOOTH: Right, got her on the run, Bones.
(Cut to: the Lab - Cam sits at the table in the upstairs lounge with a salt/pepper shaker)
BRENNAN: Hodgins found another way to track the k*ll. Angela is going through all the digital photos from the benefit now. You want to hear the details?
CAM: Not right now if you don't mind.
BRENNAN: (seeing the figurine) What's this?
CAM: When I left Michelle 10 years ago, I knew Andrew wouldn't say what needed to be said so... BRENNAN: You did it.
CAM: No. I didn't know what to say. She was so little and I loved her so much. And I haven't had a child of my own, but I find it impossible to believe anyone...anyone could love a child more. But I had no place in her life anymore so, I had to... BRENNAN: You had to leave room in case Andrew found someone else who might help raise Michelle.
CAM: I had this old salt and pepper set my grandmother gave me before she died. Fits together. I kept this one and I gave Michelle the other half. And I told her that whenever she looked at it she should know that at that exact moment, I'd be thinking of her and loving her.
BRENNAN: That is not strictly... CAM: I know, Dr. Brennan. But I swear sometimes I looked at my half and I knew that little girl was missing me.
BRENNAN: Perhaps you should take her in now.
CAM: What?
BRENNAN: She's an orphan. She's alone in the world. She needs a parent.
CAM: Michelle stopped loving me years ago.
BRENNAN: But you never stopped loving her. She'll know that. The Mohawk Indians have a saying that when a child falls in the rapids, the one who rescues her will share in her new life forever. I assume that doesn't only apply to a potential drowning v*ctim. I have to go help Angela find a snake. (Brennan gets up. Cam looks at the salt/pepper shaker)
(Cut to: Angela's office - Brennan stands over Angela looking at her computer)
BRENNAN: Hodgins says the scales from the wound didn't come from any snakes at the park.
ANGELA: So we should look for bloody clothing or snake skin. Dr. Bailey is here but she's wearing this white dress.
BRENNAN: Well, that's late in the evening. If she'd been the k*ll, it would be covered in bl*od.
ANGELA: (zooming in on a photograph) Oh, boy.
BRENNAN: A snakeskin handbag. Can you magnify that more? (Angela zooms in on the handbag alone)
ANGELA: That is definitely torn.
BRENNAN: Could be from the m*rder w*apon. Can you pull back to see the person?
(she pulls back on the picture and move a few frames forward - the picture clearly shows the person)
ANGELA: It's Nancy Lauder.
BRENNAN: The nurse. But her dress is black. It wouldn't have shown bl*od.
(Cut to: Roosevelt Hospital)
(Brennan, Booth and Cam approach the Nurses' station)
BOOTH: We have a warrant for the snakeskin handbag and the dress you wore to the fundraiser that night.
LAUDER: I b*rned the dress. I was covered in bl*od.
BOOTH: I'm placing you under arrest for the m*rder of Dr. Andrew Welton.
(Booth cuffs her)
LAUDER: I thought he'd change.
BOOTH: Yeah, you knew Dr. Welton was having an affair with Dr. Bailey.
LAUDER: All those years. I was always there for him. If anyone knows how I felt, it's you.
CAM: No, we're not the same, Nancy. I left Andrew.
(Cut to: Welton house - Cam and Michelle are talking in the living room.)
MICHELLE: Why did she k*ll my father? Yeah, I got it.
CAM: Your father was a good man, Michelle. I still carry him with me. And he loved you. We're both very lucky.
MICHELLE: I miss him so much.
CAM: I want you to consider something. You need a place to live now.
MICHELLE: Yeah, uh, my dad has some kind of cousin in Chicago.
CAM: I...(Cam puts the salt/pepper shaker on the coffee table) would like you to come live with me.
(Michelle runs upstairs. Cam starts to walk out the front door.)
MICHELLE: (coming down the stairs holding the other salt/pepper shaker) Where you going?
CAM: I thought...
(Michelle puts the two salt/pepper shakers together so they fit into a hug. Michelle runs to hug Cam. They both cry.)
END.
