THE FOOT IN THE FORECLOSURE
TEASER
(A quiet neighborhood)
(The camera focuses on all the "For Sale" signs in front of each house. It pans over to a house. We go inside and the realtor is showing a couple around)
KATIE SELNICK: It's a buyer's market so this place is a steel. The owner's wife died so he's motivated. I'd be surprised if another agent doesn't already have an offer.
WOMAN: Mmm, what's that smell?
(Katie leads the couple through a hallway and up the stairs)
KATIE: It's probably the neighbors. I hear they love to barbeque. It's a very friendly neighborhood. (After reaching the upstairs hallway) Now the master bedroom has been beautifully redone with coffered ceilings and all new carpeting. If you ask me, it's to die for.
(Katie leads the couple into the bedroom. They're smiles drop immediately and the camera pans over to the bed. On it is a pile of ash with a foot still in tact and ash in the shape of a hand.)
KATIE: I'm sorry, he was supposed to clean up.
MAN: That's a foot.
WOMAN: Oh my god! (She runs from the room screaming and hitting the door. The vibrations from the smack make the ash attached to the foot fall apart. Her husband follows)
KATIE: (sighing in anger) Crap! (She stares at the bed for a moment, then shakes her head and leaves the room)
(The Royal Diner)
(Sweets, Bones and Booth are all eating breakfast at a table)
SWEETS: (to Booth) I thought your grandfather lived in a nursing home.
BOOTH: It's a retirement community. It's not a prison. He can leave anytime that he wants.
BRENNAN: I think it's nice that he wants to stay with you for awhile.
SWEETS: Did something happen...in the nursing home?
BOOTH: You know what? If I tell you, you're just going to read into it and all sorts of stuff.
BRENNAN: I won't
BOOTH: He slugged a nurse. (Brennan raises her eyebrows) A male nurse.
SWEETS: Okay...Well actually that's pretty straightforward. Hostel, aggressive, anti-social behavior is...
BOOTH: (Interrupting) Sweets, he wanted to smoke a cigar in his room.
SWEETS: Cigar? That's interesting.
BOOTH: No it's not. He's a tough guy, that's all.
MAN'S VOICE: Hey Shrimp! (We see it's an older gentleman who has entered the diner with a suitcase. He calls out again.) Shrimp!
BOOTH: Hey, Pops. (It's Booth's grandfather.) How you doing?
(Booth stands to greet his grandfather as his grandfather wheels his suitcase towards Booth)
SWEETS: Shrimp?
BRENNAN: I imagine Booth used to be shorter.
SWEETS: Oh.
BOOTH: Ahah, Pops. Bring it over. (They hug) How you doing? (They do a special handshake) Come on over.
HANK: Nice place! The tour come with the food or do you have to order it on the side?
BOOTH: (laughing) This here's Dr. Temperance Brennan.
BRENNAN: (Shaking his grandfather's hand) Very nice to meet you, Mr. Booth.
HANK: Wow...you weren't kidding. (He kisses Brennan's hand and Booth looks uncomfortable)
BRENNAN: What did you tell him?
BOOTH: Nothing. You can give her hand back now.
HANK: Right. You can call me Hank, sweetheart.
BRENNAN: Okay, Hank.
SWEETS: Hi
HANK: And who's this, a friend of Parker's? (Brennan laughs, Sweets smiles, embarrassed)
BOOTH: No, this here's Dr. Sweets.
HANK: A doctor? (shaking his head) I don't think so.
BOOTH: No. It is.
BRENNAN: It's true.
HANK: Where'd you get your M.D.? In a CrackerJack box?
(They all laugh a little awkwardly, then sit down.)
HANK: So...what do you got in store? I'm ready for some action.
BOOTH: You know, I'd figure we play some dominoes and after that maybe go (Booth's phone rings, interrupting him. He reaches inside is jacket pocket for it) I'm sorry. Excuse me. Sorry, Pops. (He answers it) Booth. Yeah, okay. On our way. (he hangs up and looks to Brennan) Got a case. (He stands)
HANK: (standing as well) Good! I can help. I was an M.P. you know.
BOOTH: No you can't come, Pops. And tell you what, why don't you meet me back at the apartment?
HANK: (disappointed) Alright. I'll call a cab.
BOOTH: No. Uh Sweets here. He'll give you a ride. Ok, Pops?
BRENNAN (leaning over to shake Hank's hand once more) It was nice to meet you, Hank.
SWEETS: Sure.
BOOTH: I'll see you, Pops. (Booth and Hank do a fist bump and then Booth turns to leave with Brennan)
SWEETS: Uh...so shall we go?
HANK: You got room on your bicycle for my bag?
SWEETS: Ha.
(The quiet neighborhood)
(FBI people are canvassing the area. Booth and Brennan step out of Booth's car)
BRENNAN: Are you sure you can handle him? You know he must have been in a nursing home for a reason.
BOOTH: Oh Pops, he had triple bypass surgery about, oh I'd say, three months ago. You know, he didn't want to be on his own. You know, hey, if he wants to be with me now that's cool.
BRENNAN: But what if he wants to make it permanent?
BOOTH: He's family, Bones. Okay. Nothing trumps family. Just remember that, okay?
(They approach the house and Booth flashes his badge)
BOOTH: (to the cop) Alright, let's go. Open up. After you Bones.
BRENNAN: Thank you. (They both enter the house, Brennan first)
(The home's entryway)
(Katie Selnick and a the homeowner, Howard Fileman, approach Booth and Brennan)
HOWARD This wouldn't have happened if I'd been here. She told me to move out. Said the place would look better.
KATIE: Let me handle this. (turning to Booth and Brennan) Hi, I'm Katie Selnick. I'm the real estate agent. This is Howard Fileman, he's the owner of the house. (She hands Booth and Brennan her business card) I know this is a really bad time, but it is a buyer's market so...
BOOTH: (interrupting) Woah. Show a little compassion, alright? (He follows Brennan who's already left to go look at the body)
(Upstairs)
(Brennan and Booth enter from the stairs and walk into the master bedroom where the body was found)
BOOTH: I need a list of everyone who had access to the house. That means real estate agents, that means clients.
KATIE: Well that's an awfully long list.
BOOTH: Well you better start getting to work there, Katie. Here you go. (He hands her his card and then motions for her and Howard to not enter the room) Please stay there, thank you. (seeing the body) Woah.
BRENNAN: Whoever this was b*rned to ash overnight.
BOOTH: (pushing back Katie and Howard who are leering in the doorway) Can we have some space, please? Back up. So...nothing else b*rned?
BRENNAN: (shaking her head) Nothing else.
(Brennan stares hard at the body, specifivally the ash hand and the pile of what looks like bl*od at the base of the bed. Booth sees a partly eaten chocolate cake with a single candle and moves towards it.)
BOOTH: Maybe it was the candle (His movement causes the ash pinky to disintegrate) here in the cake.
BRENNAN: (yelling) STOP! (Booth stops, and Katie and Howard have leaned in the door also stop) Everyone freeze! This hand is very fragile, especially the phalanges. Any motion may cause the rest of it to just fall apart.
BOOTH: (still frozen and speaking without moving his lips) Okay. We're frozen now, Bones. What can I do?
BRENNAN: I need some kind of spray adhesive. Like hairspray. (Brennan looks at Katie) She must have some)
BOOTH: (turning towards the door) I'll go get some. (Before he can take a step, Brennan interrupts)
BRENNAN: Uh...It would be best if you didn't lift your feet when you moved.
BOOTH: Yes. (He then begins to shuffle towards Katie in the doorway. She hands him her hairspray)
BRENNAN: Careful.
BOOTH: (turning and shuffling towards Brennan and the bed) Yeah. (He hands her the bottle)
BRENNAN: (opening the can) There appear to be wounds on this hand but we won't know what w*apon caused them if I don't stabilize the ash. (She sprays the hand)
BOOTH: Okay, can I move now?
BRENNAN: Gently.
BOOTH: Right. So what are we talking about here? Spontaneous combustion?
BRENNAN: There's no such thing.
BOOTH: Come on, Bones. Electrical currents in your body. They start sparking and then before you know it, WOOSH! Flame on.
BRENNAN: Well that's absurd, Booth
BOOTH: Oh really? Then what happened?
BRENNAN: (looking at the body, completely puzzled) I have...absolutely no idea.
BOOTH: (knowing he's won) Exactly. Spontaneous combustion.
OPENING CREDITS
(Medico-Legal Lab: Platform)
(The bed with the body has been transported, including frame, to the Jeffersonian. Clark and Brennan are inspecting it. Hodgins enters)
HODGINS: I think Booth was on to something.
BRENNAN: What? Spontaneous combustion?
HODGINS: (pulling up pictures on the computer) Well, the so-called instances of spontaneous combustion can actually be explained by a phenomenon known as the wick effect. (Clark looks up) Okay, here's the classic example. Heavyset guy, passes out from booze holding a lit cigarette. He drops the cigarette onto his pajamas. PWHOO! The fire melts his belly fat.
BRENNAN: The fat soaks into the bedding creating what is essentially a slow burning human candle. The pajamas being the wick.
HODGINS: Fat burns in, not out which explains why nothing else caught on fire.
BRENNAN: Based on the position of the body, the v*ctim was either unconscious or dead when the fire started.
CLARK: People who die in a fire show signs of motion, you know, trying to get away from the flames. This person never moved. (Brennan nods)
CAM: (entering the platform with a folder) Tox screen from the tissue on the foot showed no signs of drugs or alcohol.
HODGINS: So then the v*ctim was k*ll before the fire even started. (Cam nods) So you, uh, met Booth's grandad?
BRENNAN: Yes, I think Booth wants him to move in.
HODGINS: Wow, that's a big step.
CAM: Hank raised Booth after his father left. Seeley would do anything for him.
CLARK: Booth is a good man.
HODGINS: Well, well. Showing a little interest in the personal lives of your co-workers there, Clark?
CLARK: No. I just meant that...Well, I had a grandparent who lived with us when I was young. (turning to Hodgins) And yes, I am. Too often we don't appreciate the elderly until they're gone. (Cam nods) I just find Agent Booth's actions to be commendable...(quieter) and moving.
HODGINS: (confused) You're moved?
CLARK: Yes. I'm moved. (Brennan looks at him) And now I'm not.
(Hodgins and Cam smirk at each other)
CLARK: (pointing at foot) Based on the markers, I'd say we're looking at a female.
BRENNAN: (looking as well) The v*ctim had Haglund's deformity. Very good, Dr. Edison
HODGINS: (stepping towards the foot) Haglund's deformity?
CLARK: It's a bony enlargement on the heel that's caused by wearing ill-fitting high-heeled shoes.
(Brennan pulls up the X-Ray of the foot on the computer)
BRENNAN: Judging by the microfractures and remodeling to the tarsus and metatarsus, the v*ctim also had plantar fasciitis
CAM: There were also elevated levels of leptin in the tox screen.
BRENNAN: Taken together, that means the v*ctim was probably obese.
CLARK: So we have to ID a pile of ash based on only the fact that it's a...fat lady.
BRENNAN: It's quite a challenge, I agree.
HODGINS: This orange goo looks like melted polymers. Can I grab a sample here?
BRENNAN: Just be careful of bone fragments.
CLARK: So what does he call his grandfather?
BRENNAN: Uh, "Pops."
CLARK: (smiling) I called mine "Gramps."
(A park)
(Hank is sitting on a bench while a police officer is on the phone)
POLICE OFFICER: Agent Booth? This is Officer David Poe, third district. Sorry to disturb you, sir.
(Booth's Office)
BOOTH: What's up, Officer Poe?
POE: (through phone) Well, I'm here with your grandfather, sir.
BOOTH: Excuse me?
HANK: (through phone) I'm fine...
(A park)
HANK: ...Seeley. This cop just pinched me for nothing.
POE: We're in Tacoma Park. I think he could use a ride home.
(Booth's Office)
BOOTH: Well...uh...uh...is he hurt? Is he okay?
(A park)
POE: He was a little confused and disoriented.
HANK: (grabbing the phone from Poe) Wait a minute. Seeley, I'm fine. I just took a...
(Booth's Office)
HANK: (through phone) ...subway to see my friend, Willy Louis. I mentioned him to you?
(A park)
HANK: We were in the 82nd together.
(Booth's Office)
BOOTH: Yeah, I remember, Pops.
(A park)
HANK: Well the son of a bitch up and died on me. They had the funeral three weeks ago. Nobody even told me. I took a walk to clear my head and uh...well I got turned around.
(Booth's Office)
BOOTH: Listen, Pops. I'm just..I'm coming to get you. Okay?
(A park)
HANK: You're working.
(Booth's Office)
BOOTH: (exiting his office) That's okay. It's okay, Pop. Just uh...put me back on with the cop.
(A park)
HANK: (handing the phone back to Poe) Here.
(The Office area outside Booth's office)
BOOTH: Hi. (he looks up and sees Katie approach him) Oh, Ms. Selnick. (to Poe) Hold on.
KATIE: (following Booth toward the elevators. she hands him a paper) I have a list of some of the people who had access to the house.
BOOTH: Some?
KATIE: I'll...I'll get more but I was showing a house. The market is horrible. I haven't made a sale in...
BOOTH: (holding his hand up to interrupt) A woman is dead, Ms. Selnick. That doesn't bother you at all?
KATIE: I know it should. My therapist says I'm afraid to feel.
BOOTH: (getting into the elevator) You know, you should really be afraid of going to jail for obstructing a m*rder investigation. I want those names by tomorrow. Tomorrow. (putting the phone back to his ear) I'm on my way, Officer. (Back to Katie) Tomorrow.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Angela's Office)
(The solidified ash hand is on a rotating pedestal getting scanned by the computer)
BRENNAN: The wounds appear to be defensive but this section of hand is too fragile to take a mold.
ANGELA: I'm making a 3D rendering which is essentially a virtual mold. (the 3D image appears on the monitor) Hey, Booth must be cute with his grandfather, huh?
BRENNAN: His grandfather calls him "Shrimp." Booth seems to like it which I don't understand.
ANGELA: Well cause it makes him feel loved. Like when he actually was a shrimp.
BRENNAN: So the moniker is a sign of affection.
ANGELA: Very good, Brennan. You never had a nickname?
BRENNAN: Oh, no. Just what Booth calls me. Just...just "Bones."
HODGINS: (entering) The orange glob of goo. Polyethylene terephthalate. (Angela looks had him confused) Right. It's polyester. It's the perfect wick. She had to have been wearing it when she was lit.
ANGELA: Hey let me see that.
HODGINS: (handing Angela the tray with the sample) Not enough residue for it to be a coat or pajamas or anything.
ANGELA: What about a vest?
HODGINS: Yeah, I mean could be.
ANGELA: Hmm. I think I know this color. (grabbing her monitor tablet and scanning the sample) The computer can match the exact shade of color for us. (bringing up the color wheel on the monitor) This is the Palatone color wheel. When a corporation wants to standardize their logo, they have Palatone create a color for them. This particular shade of orange is known as "PriceCo. Blossom Orange" This is the color of the vests the employees wear.
HODGINS: The v*ctim worked at PriceCo.
BRENNAN: (starting to leave) I'll tell Booth. (she exits)
(Booth's car)
(Booth is driving and Hank is in the passenger seat)
BOOTH: I just got to make one stop. Okay, Pops?
HANK: This about the m*rder?
BOOTH: Yeah. It's not going to take long. You sure you're alright?
HANK: Stop asking me that. You never got lost? Just because I'm maturing, people think I'm going senile.
BOOTH: Alright, alright. Okay. Just asking.
HANK: You remember when I taught you how to pitch? You thought I was too old then, too.
BOOTH: I'll tell you. You had the best sinker I ever saw. I can never get that one right.
HANK: Your fastball could smoke mine.
BOOTH: (smiling) I'm glad you're here, Pops.
HANK: Yeah, well...And don't worry...if you ever need a little privacy with the bone doctor, I'll make myself scarce.
BOOTH: Ok, thanks. But there's nothing going on between us.
HANK: You gay?
BOOTH: What? (confused) No.
HANK: She's a keeper. You should listen to me. I warned you about Rebecca being a waste of time. Didn't I?
BOOTH: C'mon, Pops. I can take care of my own love life.
HANK: I don't think so.
(Booth nods and continues driving)
(PriceCo.)
(Booth and Hank are entering the store)
HANK: Well I got to get a book light. Now, I won't get in your way.
BOOTH: Alright. Listen, Pops. Do me a favor. Why don't you just...just stand right in the entrance. Underneath this big sign, alright? Cause I got to go find the manager.
HANK: Well go! Keep America safe.
BOOTH: Don't wander off. Stay right here.
(Booth heads off to find the manager. Hank paces in a circle. A woman approaches)
WOMAN: Excuse me. Um, where would I find electrical tape?
HANK: (thinking about it) Let's see... I think... (looking down the aisles) I think I can help you find it. This way. (he guides her away from the entrance)
(Electrical section of PriceCo.)
(Booth is speaking with the manager)
MANAGER: Meg Tracy's been AWOL since Tuesday. Never called. Not like her.
BOOTH: Would you happen to have an employee photo?
MANAGER: Sure. Did she do something? Because I don't want to get dragged into anything.
BOOTH: No. We're just concerned something may have happened to her. That's all.
MANAGER: Maybe you heard complaints about me. But its from those slackers and b*at who don't do their job. I keep my nose clean.
BOOTH: The photo...
MANAGER: I'll get her whole file. Just leave me out of it.
(Hank, now wearing a orange work vest approaches the electrical section, this time with a different customer)
HANK: Kitchen and Bath. Right down there.
CUSTOMER: Thank you.
(Booth sees Hank and stops him)
BOOTH: Pops, what are you doing? You don't work here. Why are you wearing that vest?
HANK: Well three people told me I was a good greeter so I got a vest.
BOOTH: Okay Pops. We got to go. Let's go. Take the vest off.
HANK: My shift's not over.
BOOTH: No. You're not on a shift. (the manager approaches) Will you just...
MANAGER: You think this is the break room? Because I will fire you.
BOOTH: Slow down, okay. This here's my grandfather, alright? He's just a big fan of the store, that's all. (Taking off Hank's vest) He's always wanted to work here, but not today. (Handing her the vest and taking the file) We got to get this file back to Bones, okay. Thanks.
MANAGER: Mmmhmm.
HANK: I quit.
BOOTH: Yeah, he quits. C'mon. (Booth leads Hank toward the entrance. They pass a customer asking an employee a question)
CUSTOMER: Where would I find fertilizer for azaleas?
HANK: (before the employee can respond) Aisle 4.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Platform)
(Brennan, Clark and Cam bring up the picture of Meg Tracy on the computer. She is not obese.)
CAM: This woman's a size 4, tops.
BRENNAN: Well she must have recently lost a significant amount of weight.
CLARK: Her doctor confirmed that she had been treated for both the microfractures we found on the foot and the Haglund's deformity.
BRENNAN: But on her last visit with him she weighed 234 pounds.
CLARK: Baby had back. (Cam looks puzzled. Brennan looks at Clark. Clark looks back at the monitor awkwardly) Sorry. I don't know where that came from. (He then pulls up X-rays of the v*ctim's foot) The doctor's x-rays of the foot match ours. It's Meg Tracy.
CAM: If Meg was thin, why so much ash?
BRENNAN: Because there was someone else in bed with Meg. Two people died in that fire.
CAM: So now we're looking at a double m*rder.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Platform)
(Bone fragments and ash taken are dispersed in various bins on one of the examining tables. Clark places down a final bin of ash)
CLARK: Given the amount of ash and bone, these remains represent approximately 380 pounds of human.
CAM: (standing next to Clark. Angela is on the other side of the table) We know that Meg Tracy weighed about 120 which puts our second v*ctim at 260.
CLARK: (picking up a fragment and looking at it through a magnifying glass) It's part of the middle eminence. Judging by the angle of the jaw fragment, the second v*ctim was male.
HODGINS: (on another table examining a piece of the bed spring) A super-size male.
CAM: So the cake on the table was probably his.
ANGELA: I still don't have nearly enough to give you a face.
HODGINS: And I'm still working on these inorganics.
CLARK: I'll separate the male and female bone fragments. See if they share any injuries.
(The Founding Fathers)
(Booth, Brennan and Hank are eating lunch. Hank has multiple pill bottles in front of him and is looking at one.)
BRENNAN: We're still assembling evidence analyzing the bones and constructing 3D imagery.
HANK: They got lighter fluid and Presto logs over at PriceCo. They could burn somebody up.
BRENNAN: There's no evidence of an accelerant.
HANK: Yet. That manager over there that yelled at me. I saw the look in her eyes. I was an M.P. you know.
BOOTH: Pops, this is a little bit more complicated than, you know, arresting some drunk soldiers that just wandered off the base.
HANK: I don't think so. (looking down at the bottle in his hand) Did I take these blue pills?
BOOTH: You took the yellow pills.
HANK: (slamming the bottle on the table, clearly frustrated) I feel like a damn chemistry experiment. They didn't have this stuff 50 years ago and everybody was fine.
BRENNAN: Actually medicine has increased life expectancy quite a bit since 1959. 50 years ago, you'd probably be dead.
BOOTH: Bones.
HANK: No, I like her. She's real. She's got balls.
BRENNAN; Well, ovaries actually.
HANK: Well alright. You got a pair of steel ovaries.
BRENNAN: Thank you.
BOOTH: Will you two, please?
HANK: Always so proper...will you loosen up?
BRENNAN: He's quite skittish when the subject of sex comes up.
BOOTH: No I'm not.
HANK: Maybe I didn't give him enough information when he was a kid.
(Booth's phone rings. He answers)
BOOTH: Booth. Oh. Yeah. I'll come in right now. Alright. (he hangs up)
BRENNAN: What's going on?
BOOTH: (standing) They brought in Meg Tracy's roommate for questioning. I should go talk to her. Look, I'm sorry, Pops.
HANK: Go! We'll play dominoes later. You'll lose.
BOOTH: (exiting) You wish.
HANK: I love that kid. I'm more proud of him than anybody in the world.
BRENNAN: I think he feels the same way. He had no one else when his father walked out. He was lucky to have you.
HANK: (sighs) I never had the nerve to tell him it was my fault.
BRENNAN: What was?
HANK: If I was a better man, maybe I could have figured something else out. But when I saw my son hitting Seeley...b*at that little kid...that was it. I said, "Get out. You don't deserve to be a father. Get out." He never came back. So I...I was left with the two boys.
BRENNAN: You are a good man, Hank.
HANK: I didn't know what else to do. He was b*at my grandson. (Brennan grabs Hank's hand) Look, when the time is right, you'll tell him. And if he uh...if he needs it...you'll hold him. Okay?
BRENNAN: (nodding) Okay.
(Hank sighs)
(Booth's Office)
(Meg Tracy's roommate, Stephanie, is sitting in a chair, she is overweight. Booth is standing behind his desk leaning against the file cabinets)
STEPHANIE: I wondered why Meg hadn't come back to the apartment. I tried to call. You're sure it's Meg?
BOOTH: Yeah, I'm afraid so. How long have you guys been roommates?
STEPHANIE: Three years. We were weight loss buddies. This year the loser paid for the other one to go to Hawaii. Incentive, you know. I lost, obviously.
BOOTH: So yo paid for Meg's trip?
STEPHANIE: Meg lost over a 100 pounds. I lost 6. How did she die?
BOOTH: Well, we're still working on cause of death. You know, she was with a man. (sitting) Do you happen to know, uh, who Meg was dating?
STEPHANIE: No one special. I would have known. She used to meet different guys at Club Jiggle.
BOOTH: Club Jiggle?
STEPHANIE: For thin people who...let's say they appreciate people my size. I went myself a couple times but it was too freaky. These skinny guys saying they wanted to fondle my cankles and eat brisket out of my navel. It skeeved me out.
BOOTH: Brisket? (Stephanie nods.) Right that's a whole...a whole 'nother world, I guess. Um, can you verify where you were the night of the 10th?
STEPHANIE: There was a big house party. I was there until after 2am.
BOOTH: (taking out a pad and pen from his desk and bringing it to her) Um, can you do me a favor and just, um, write down the names of people who could verify they saw you at the party?
STEPHANIE: (taking the pen and pad suspiciously) Am I a suspect?
(Medico-Legal Lab: Angela's Office)
(Hodgins, Angela, Clark and Cam are standing in front of the giant monitor)
CAM: You can get the second v*ctim's height from bone fragments?
CLARK: Once objected to intense heat, the long bones warp, crack and contract in predictable ways.
ANGELA: Based on the figures that Clark gave me, I was able to partially reconstruct a male fibula.
CLARK: The amount of bone shrinkage from heat exposure was about 20%.
HODGINS: Which allows you to calculate height. That's brilliant.
(Angela is visually reconstructing all that is said on her monitor)
CAM: We know that our v*ctim was approximately 260 pounds.
ANGELA: Yeah, but based on the fibula, he was 5'5".
CAM: 5'5", 260. That's a start. I'll tell Booth. (she exits)
(Sweets' Office)
(Brennan and Booth are on the couch, Sweets in his chair)
SWEETS: Meg may have been participating in a feeder and eater fetish.
BOOTH: Her roommate said that the guys at the club wanted to eat brisket out of her...navel.
SWEETS: Okay, that would make sense.
BRENNAN: Fetishes are common in all sexually repressed societies like ours.
SWEETS: Yeah, feeders and eaters are a sub-category of fat fetishism that involves an obese person, or an eater, and a feeder that derives sexual pleasure out of gaining and fondling of body fat.
BOOTH: That would explain the uh..the cake next to the bed. Which I'm probably never gonna want to eat again.
BRENNAN: Hank said you love cake:
BOOTH: I usually do. Wait, are we staying on point here?
BRENNAN: Well, we were discussing cake, weren't we? Oh, he's making you grilled cheese tonight by the way.
BOOTH: Really?
BRENNAN: Yes. I'm invited.
SWEETS: How's it going with your grandfather? I know it can be very stressful to be responsible for someone who is elderly.
BOOTH: It's fine.
BRENNAN: Well he does take a lot of medication so he has health issues. You have to stay on top of that.
BOOTH: Well he took care of me when I was sick. I can take care of him.
SWEETS: It's not going to be easy for him to build a new life here at his age. And he's got a history of aggressive behavior, right? If he ever wants to talk, I'd be more than happy...
BOOTH: (interrupting) ...sorry we were talking about m*rder here, right? Meg Tracy...fondling of fat.
SWEETS: Of course.
BOOTH: So why would Meg go back to the club if she wasn't fat anymore?
SWEETS: Meg lived for many years as an obese woman. Her obsession with food is not something that would just go away. She would have to struggle with it everyday.
BOOTH: Right. So you're saying she missed overeating so much that she fed other people in order to feed herself?
SWEETS: Yes, exactly
BRENNAN: So the eater became a feeder. And somehow it got her k*ll. (Sweets nods)
(Booth's Apartment)
(Hank is in the kitchen cooking. Brennan and Booth are eating grilled cheese in teh living room)
BOOTH: I had these about three times a week. They're amazing, right?
BRENNAN: Mmmhmm. Very good.
HANK: I learned how to make these during the Battle of Inchon. American Cheese reminded us of home. We kept fighting. (he places another plate of sandwiches down)
BOOTH: Come on, Bones. Dig in. This is real food here.
BRENNAN: Mm. We should get to the club, Booth. (she stands and heads for the door)
BOOTH: (standing and still chewing) Bones is right. We got a lot of people to interrogate, Pops.
HANK: Oh, sure.
BOOTH: (pointing to the food) Amazin.
HANK: What channel's the fishing channel on?
BOOTH: 135
BRENNAN: (coming from the kitchen with one of Hank's pill bottles) You're out of your coumadin Hank.
HANK: Ahh, I forgot. So many pills.
BRENNAN: These pills are important. (Booth comes over with his jacket on looking very concerned) If you forget to take them you get clots, have a heart attack, or stroke.
HANK: (shaking his head) I don't think so.
BOOTH: Pops, when was the last time you took them.
HANK: Uhh...a few days ago.
BRENNAN: We have to go get this refilled. He should take them right away.
HANK: (looking to Booth) I'm fine.
BOOTH: No no. You're coming with us. Okay Pops? I'm going to make sure you take them in front of me. Alright? Come on.
(Medico Legal-Lab: Angela's Office)
(Cam and Angela are looking at the 3D rendering of the hand)
ANGELA: The center of the palm has some kind of injury. Brennan suspects it's defensive.
CAM: There was a cake next to them. Could the injury be caused by a kn*fe?
ANGELA: No. It's not a kn*fe. See the markings are jagged. No, it doesn't indicate any recognizable w*apon. By filling in the injury I can make a virtual mold of the injured area.
CAM: It's a nose.
ANGELA: (laughing) k*ll by a nose? That'd be a first. I'll see if I can match any possible w*apon. Maybe something old.
(Booth's Car)
(Booth is driving, Brennan is in the passenger seat and Hank is riding in the middle seat in the back)
BOOTH: So you took it Pops, you took the pill?
HANK: I took it. You saw me.
BRENNAN: I got you a pill box that has a compartment for each day's pills. That way you won't forget.
HANK: I won't forget. So where're we going?
BOOTH: Well...we're going to a...(looking to Brennan to find a better description) it's an unusual spot. It's where...what would be the PC word for fat?
HANK: There's nothing wrong with big women. You're grandma has some jam in her jelly.
BOOTH: Alright, Pops.
BRENNAN: Being overweight wasn't always stigmitized. During the Middle Ages in Italy, the wealthy and influential members of society were called "popolo grasso," meaning literally "fat people."
HANK: Is she always like this?
BOOTH: You know what, Pops? She always has the facts, Pops. Always.
HANK: You should go on a game show. You'd clean up.
BOOTH: I tell her that all the time. But you know...she's already loaded.
HANK: She's got talent, charm, beauty, money. And you're just friends? (Brennan and Booth both look back at Hank) I didn't raise you very well.
(Brennan and Booth look at each other, then look away at the same time)

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Club Jiggle)
("Baby Got Back" is playing in the background. Overweight women are dancing with skinny men. Some men are feeding the women. Brennan and Booth are observing the room. Hank is standing in front of them, staring)
HANK: Freaky.
BOOTH: Hey look, Pops. I want you to stick close. I don't want you disappearing into one of those women.
BRENNAN: They seem quite happy. Obviously they haven't seen their bl*od sugar levels.
(A large woman pops up from the table in front of them)
WOMAN: Hey baby. You're not with the celery stick, are you?
BOOTH: No...I mean yes, yeah. (he puts his arm around Brennan and pulls her closer)
BRENNAN: My body mass index is within the accepted medical norms.
WOMAN: You don't know what you're missing. (she winks at Booth)
BOOTH: Hey listen, Pops. We're going to go talk to the bartender. You going to be okay? (Hank is staring at the woman and not paying attention. Booth snaps him out of it) Pops?
HANK: Will you stop asking me that?
BOOTH: Alright, come on. (Booth leads Brennan over to the bar. Hank looks back at the women dancing. He sways to a couple b*at)
(Club Jiggle: At the bar)
(The bartender sees Booth and Brennan approach. Booth flashes his badge)
BARTENDER: Is there a problem?
BOOTH: I just want to ask you a few questions. (he takes out a picture of Meg) Do you recognize this girl?
BARTENDER: (looking at the picture) Yeah. Meg. She's been coming here for years. She just lost a bunch of weight. I guess she switched sides.
BRENNAN: Did you ever see her with a man, approximately 5'5", 260 pounds?
BARTENDER: Is Meg alright?
BOOTH: She's dead. (the bartender looks shocked) That might help jog your memory a little bit.
BARTENDER: Oh, man. Yeah, sure. Let's see. There was one guy. (she pauses. Brennan and Booth wait for more)
BRENNAN: Yes?
BARTENDER: Glasses?
BOOTH: I don't know. You tell us.
BARTENDER: Big, of course. Short. Meg bought him a bacon burger and some cake. The guy loved cake. Just like Meg used to. She must have fed him...six pieces. Devil's Food.
BOOTH: Great, great. Do you got a name?
BARTENDER: Sorry. Did he k*ll her?
BOOTH: He's dead too. (the bartender makes a disgusted face) Yeah.
BARTENDER: He had a goatee...Oh wait. Hugo. She called him Hugo.
BOOTH: Hugo? Great, thank you.
BARTENDER: Sure. Sorry about Meg.
(Club Jiggle)
(Brennan and Booth come back into the dance section of the club)
BRENNAN: We should see if there are any Hugo's on the real estate agent's list.
BOOTH: Yeah, well she hasn't given me the list yet.
BRENNAN: Well maybe she had a reason not to.
BOOTH: That's exactly what I was thinking. (he looks towards the dance floor) Look at that, huh?
(Hank is dancing with a couple of women, clearly enjoying himself. Brennan laughs)
BRENNAN: They like him.
BOOTH: Yeah, well you know? He never had any problems with the ladies.
(Hank whispers something in one woman's ear and she laughs quite loudly. Brennan looks concerned)
BRENNAN: We should get him home.
BOOTH: Nah, let's just give him a second there, huh? He's having a good time. No rush.
(Booth continues to watch Hank dance and likes that Hank is having a good time. Brennan observes this and smiles)
(FBI Building: Conference Room)
(Katie and Howard are sitting at the table when Booth and Brennan walk in)
BOOTH: Mr. Fileman. I didn't expect to see you here.
HOWARD: Katie said she was going to see you and suggested I come along.
BOOTH: Did you bring the list of people who had access to the house?
KATIE: (handing a paper to Booth) Yes I did.
BOOTH: Right, then what's he doing here.
KATIE: He can't sell his house as long as it's a crime scene.
BRENNAN: Neither can you.
KATIE: That was nasty.
BOOTH: But it's true.
HOWARD: Look the bank is threatening to foreclose like, you know, this is my fault. I can't lose my house before I have a chance to sell. Katie said you could help.
(Booth looks to Katie. She looks down.)
BOOTH: I'm sorry but it's an active crime scene.
HOWARD: My wife and I built that house together. After she died I couldn't get any work. 21 years as a master carpenter, you know? Means nothing. How is that fair?
(Katie places her hand on Howard's shoulder)
KATIE: If you could just sign a request for a stay of foreclosure for, uh, unforseen circumstances, like a government investigation? I brought the form, Agent Booth. (she hands Booth another paper)
BRENNAN: This isn't a very long list.
KATIE: Not a very good market.
BRENNAN: (pointing to a name on the list out to Booth) Hugo. Tucker.
BOOTH: Hugo Tucker? Tucker? Uh, would he happen to have been overweight, goatee, glasses, by any chance?
KATIE: Tucker? Yeah. I think so. He looked at the house a few times. Thought he was going to make an offer.
HOWARD: I remember him. He really loved the custom work I'd done. Nice man.
BRENNAN: Well he's probably the other v*ctim.
HOWARD: Oh god. Is this going to delay things more?
BOOTH: I'll see what I can do.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Bone Room)
(Clark is examining bone fragments. Cam enters)
CLARK: I've pulled all the teeth we've found in the ashes. These incisors and molars, they match the x-rays that were sent over from Hugo Tucker's dentist.
CAM: So it's definitely him? (Clark nods) Any markers on the fragments that could help Angela ID a w*apon?
CLARK: All the bone damage I've found so far is a result of fire. The heat causes the bone to break apart into small crescent shapes. (bringing a magnifier over the bones) Like this. Or they'll show a criss-cross pattern. (he moves the device again) Like this.
CAM: Huh. Have you gone through them all?
CLARK: I'm still looking.
CAM: Excellent. (she begins to exit but then turns back around) Oh. And I have to say, I was pleasantly surprised yesterday that you felt relaxed enough to talk about your grandfather.
CLARK: I'm human, you know? I just believe in working at work.
CAM: I realize that. I do.
CLARK: And I love my grandfather very much, but...I really should have the discipline to keep it to myself.
CAM: Of course. Then carry on. (she heads to the door once more)
CLARK: He never got to see what I became. (Cam stops and waits) What I do...it's for him.
CAM: I'm sure he'd be very proud. (she turns and exits)
(FBI Building Office Floor)
(Brennan and Booth are exiting Booth's office and walking towards the kitchenette)
BOOTH: (handing Brennan a picture) Hugo Tucker. Single.
BRENNAN: Huh. Glasses and goatee.
BOOTH: Yeah. Signed in at the open house. I talked to his roommate. No enemies, he wasn't in debt. There's no reason why somebody would want him dead.
BRENNAN: Jealousy. What if Meg had a boyfriend?
BOOTH: No. Her roommate said there was no one special.
BRENNAN: I still don't like the real estate lady.
BOOTH: Interesting. (they enter the kitchenette and Booth heads to the vending machine) thought you didn't like to go by your gut.
BRENNAN: Well, I was just trying it out. (she makes a disgusted face) It's not satisfying.
BOOTH: Right.
(Brennan's cell rings. She answers)
BRENNAN: Brennan. Oh, hi Hank.
BOOTH: (having trouble with the machine) Hank? Why is he calling you?
BRENNAN: For dinner. Tonight at 7. We'll play dominoes after.
BOOTH: No. No. Tell him he doesn't have to make me dinner.
BRENNAN: (into the phone) Booth says that you don't have to make dinner. (she listens, laughs then turns to Booth) Okay. He says shut up and don't be late. (she laughs again) Okay, Hank. Alright. Thanks, bye. (She hangs up) He says he's going to teach me how to kick your ass.
BOOTH: Ha. That'll be the day. I don't think so. I don't like that real estate agent either. Maybe...what if she was sleeping with Hugo. (Brennan's cell rings again. She tries answer but Booth grabs the phone) Give me that. (he answers) Listen Pops, okay, we're trying to work here.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Hodgins' office)
HODGINS: (on the phone) Not Pops. But I'm interested to know what's going on.
(The Kitchenette)
BOOTH: Nothing special. What is it Hodgins?
(Medico-Legal Lab: Hodgins' Room)
(Hodgins is showing a sample of something in a petri dish to Booth and Brennan. Cam and Angela are also there)
HODGINS: So this was melted onto one of the bedsprings.
BOOTH: (looking with a magnifying glass) What is that?
BRENNAN: It's a slim ring.
BOOTH: One more time. What is that?
HODGINS: It's a gastric banding device that actually limits the amount of food a person's stomach can hold at one time.
CAM: A surgical means of losing weight.
ANGELA: Well that's how she lost 100 pounds in such a short time.
BOOTH: Heh. So much for willpower.
BRENNAN: (looking at it through the microscope) It has a serial number.
HODGINS: Yeah, exactly. I talked to the doctor who did the operation. It turns out that the slim ring was not registered to Meg Tracy, but it was registered to her roommate, Stephanie Stevens. (Hodgins pulls up a digital copy of the record on the computer)
CAM: Woah. Meg used her roommate's insurance. Bet Stephanie was pretty mad about that.
BRENNAN: Well especially if she wanted to get the same procedure herself. But now couldn't. (Booth's phone rings)
ANGELA: But mad enough to k*ll?
BOOTH: Oh, I've seen people k*ll for a lot less, believe me. (he answers the phone) Booth. Yeah, God, is he alright? Okay, I'm on my way. (he hangs up) Uh, there was a fire in my place. Pops was cooking and the stove and uh...(he exits quickly. the others look worried)
(Booth's apartment)
(Firemen are leaving. Booth is thanking them. He shuts the door and walks into the kitchen. The entire stove area is charred. Hank is standing there)
HANK: It's that stupid stove. Who has a stove like that?
BOOTH: You left a dishtowel on the stove, Pops.
HANK: (shaking his head) I don't thinks so.
BOOTH: You know, you could have been hurt. You could have been k*ll.
HANK: I always used to make dinner for you. (Booth nods) Done it more than a million times. (he walks into the living room and sits on the arm of the couch) It's that damn stove.
BOOTH: (nodding) Alright.
(Booth's Office)
(He enters with Hank, Brennan and Sweets behind him)
BOOTH: I won't be long, Pops. I just have to question the suspect.
HANK: I don't need a babysitter, you know. (looking at Sweets) And I do mean baby. Why can't I stay here with Temperance?
BRENNAN: Oh, I have work at the lab. Perhaps you can teach Sweets to play dominoes.
BOOTH: (grabbing a file off his desk and coming back around to Hank) Great idea.
SWEETS: I already know how. I don't think he'd have a chance.
HANK: You don't know who you're messing with, squirt.
SWEETS: Bring it on, old man.
BOOTH: (handing a box of dominoes to Hank) Those are fighting words, Pops. Thanks Sweets. (he nods to Brennan to leave)
BRENNAN: Okay, see you later Hank. (Brennan and Booth exit)
HANK: (alone with Sweets) You know, what happened to me could have happened to anybody.
(They sit in the corner chairs)
SWEETS: Oh, I know.
HANK: Just because I'm carrying a few extra years doesn't mean I can't take care of myself.
SWEETS: I know.
HANK: (staring at Sweets) Smart ass. (he opens the dominoes and dumps them on the table) I go first.
SWEETS: Alright.
(FBI Office floor: by the elevators)
(Booth is leading Brennan to the elevators)
BOOTH: Thanks for coming in Bones. You know, he really wanted to see you.
BRENNAN: Are you sure you don't need me?
BOOTH: No. I'll interrogate her roommate and if I get anything, I'll call you.
BRENNAN: I'm sorry.
BOOTH: Yeah, I guess he needs more than I can give right now. (he waits for a response. she gives none) Maybe I should take a leave of absence.
BRENNAN: Can you afford to do that? You have a son to take care of too.
BOOTH: No. Pops will think I don't love him.
BRENNAN: (shocked) Really?
BOOTH: I should go. (he leaves to go to the interrogation room)
(FBI Building: Interrogation Room)
(Booth is interrogating Stephanie)
BOOTH: So we know that Meg used your insurance card for the slim ring surgery.
STEPHANIE: (confused) What? That's why I got turned down?
BOOTH: What? You didn't know?
STEPHANIE: I...went in for a routine check-up and my insurance declined payment. They said I'd exceeded my annual limit. I thought it was a mistake. That's how she lost the weight? That bitch.
BOOTH: So are you saying she stole your insurance card?
STEPHANIE: Well, no. I...I...I let her use my card, but not for that. She was sick, she didn't have any insurance so I helped her out.
BOOTH: Well you know that's a crime, right?
STEPHANIE: Well isn't it a crime when your roommate screws you out of 10 grand worth of medical coverage?
BOOTH: Sorry, but you're not answering my question here.
STEPHANIE: She cheated on our bet. I paid for her trip to Hawaii too. I can't believe this.
BOOTH: So you were at the party the night that Meg was k*ll, correct?
STEPHANIE: Yes.
BOOTH: Well we talked to those people off the list that you gave us and, um, that's an awfully big party, big enough for you to disappear. And no one could really tell if you'd gone or if you'd left. They didn't know.
STEPHANIE: Great. You're never going to believe me so now I have to pay for a lawyer too.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Bone Room)
(Brennan enters. Clark is there. He has the bones separated into 2 piles)
BRENNAN: Have you found anything Dr. Edison?
CLARK: Yes. All of these bone fragments are scarred exclusively with markers from the fire. But these two... (he points to a tray where he has 2 small pieces laying) a piece of the parietal and occipital seem to show evidence of being fractured.
BRENNAN: (looking at the bones under magnification) Huh. Definitely could have been made by the pointed object Angela is trying to identify. (she pokes the pieces with the tweezers) But look at this. (liquid comes off on the tweezer)
CLARK: Residue on the edge of the fracture?
BRENNAN: It's a resin.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Hodgins' Room)
(The results of the mass spectrometer come up on the monitor)
HODGINS: Resin consists of turpines and phenolic compounds.
BRENNAN: It's wood. He was struck with a w*apon made out of wood.
HODGINS: Teak, to be exact.
CLARK: The bed is teak.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Platform)
(Hodgins, Cam, Brennan, Angela and Clark are all standing around the bed)
BRENNAN: The wounds on Meg's hand were clearly defensive so she couldn't have accidentally hit her hand against the posts.
CAM: And the blows were sufficient to render them unconscious.
ANGELA: (pointing to the head bedposts) The finials.
HODGINS: The what?
ANGELA: The decorative knobs that go on top of the posts. They're missing.
(Medico-Legal Lab: Angela's Office)
(All 5 squints are now in front of Angela's monitor)
ANGELA: So the rest of the bed was carved which means the finials must have been carved too. (She pulls up pictures of the exterior and interior of the house) Okay. This is the real estate agents virtual tour of Howard's house. (she pulls up a picture of the bed in the bedroom) Look. We have finials. (she zooms in on them. they are carved in the shape of a woman's head)
CAM: The reason why the image looked like a nose was because it was a nose. (Angela takes the hand impression and tries matching it to the finial. no match) The v*ctim was b*at with one of these heads. (She pulls up the other finial. This one is a man)
BRENNAN: Wait, that's Howard Fileman, the homeowner. He said he was a master carpenter.
ANGELA: So the other one was probably his wife. (Brennan nods and she matches the nose on that finial to the hand. It's a match.
CAM: So it wasn't about who was having sex, but about where they were having sex.
ANGELA: Howard carved this bed for him and his wife. It was a symbol of their love.
HODGINS: Meg and Hugo both had roommates. The house was cheaper than a hotel.
CAM: Howard catches Meg and Hugo having sex in his bed.
CLARK: Weird cake sex.
HODGINS: He k*ll them, sets the bed on fire, then leaves with the busts of him and his wife.
ANGELA: That's so sweet. (they all look at her quizzically) a...a...and it's horrible too. It's mainly horrible.
BRENNAN: I'll tell Booth. Howard might still have the finials we'll pull bl*od and tissue from.
ANGELA: Oh he'll still have them. I guarantee it. It's all he has left of her.
(FBI Building: Interrogation Room)
(Howard is sitting across from Booth and Brennan looking at his wife's finial that's in an evidence bag. His finial is also there)
HOWARD: I went back to...sleep in our bed. I used to stare at her face up on the bedpost and pretend she was next to me. But I found them. It wasn't right.
(Booth's Apartment)
(Booth and Hank are in the living room about to eat dinner)
HANK: I don't know why you got take out. I could have cooked dinner.
BOOTH: Right. Try this one here, it's chicken. You'll love it.
HANK: Oh I don't think so. It doesn't look like chicken to me. (Booth looks at him) I'll try it anyway.
BOOTH: (handing him a fork) Look I got you a fork because I know how much you hate chopsticks. Alright?
HANK: Good job.
BOOTH: Yeah. (he watches Hank spread his napkin) Listen. There's something I got to tell you.
HANK: I know. This isn't chicken. I already told you that. (Booth half laughs) But there's something I want to say to you first. (Booth lets him speak) I can't tell you how much it means to me to be here with you. To share your life. To see what a good man you've turned out to be.
BOOTH: Pops...
HANK: Shut up. This gooey crap isn't easy for me. (Booth smiles) Now listen. I don't want you to think I don't love you. But I've got to go back.
BOOTH: What?
HANK: To the place. They need me. Ronald called. He's got no one to fish with. And Margaret needs my help with the crocheting.
BOOTH: You crochet, Pops?
HANK: That's what we call sex. (Booth nods) And lets face it. You're appliances stink.
BOOTH: I...well, what about the orderlies?
HANK: Ah don't worry about them. They're used to being hit by them.
BOOTH: Ok then. You're really sure this is what you want?
HANK: I already called them. They know I'm coming. Maybe you and your friend can give me a ride, huh?
BOOTH: Yeah.
(Outside Willow River Retirement Community)
(Hank is wheeling his suitcase to the entrance. Brennan and Booth are following)
BOOTH: You'll call, right Pops?
HANK: I'll call. You'll call. We'll visit. We'll be sick of each other. (he stops and turns to Booth and Brennan)
BRENNAN: I'll miss you, Hank.
HANK: Of course you will. Shrimp, can you give us a minute?
(Booth looks to Brennan and then back to Hank)
BOOTH: Sure, Pops. (He steps away)
HANK: You remember what I told you.
BRENNAN: I remember
HANK: (looking to Booth) He's big and strong. But he's gonna need someone. Everyone needs someone. Don't be scared.
BRENNAN: Scared? What? I'm not scared of anything.
HANK: It all goes by so fast. You don't want any regrets.
BRENNAN: I don't understand.
HANK: Yes you do. (Brennan knows he's right) Give me a hug. (they hug. Hank points to Booth) Alright it's your turn.
BOOTH: (as he passes Brennan who steps away from Hank) What did he say to you?
HANK: None of your business. Now listen. You remember? It's all in there. (pointing his fist over Booth's heart) Everything you need to know. (Hank looks at Brennan. Then back to Booth) You just do what it tells you.
BOOTH: I love you, Pops.
HANK: I love you. (They hug) Okay, okay now. I can't breathe. Alright.
(He and Booth do their special handshake. Brennan also waves and steps back to them)
HANK: Alright then. (he wheels his suitcase through the doors)
BOOTH: What he say to you?
BRENNAN: Nothing. Just saying goodbye. You?
BOOTH: Me? Uh...nothing. Just...be a good boy. Stuff like that. (they watch Hank disappear) We should go.
BRENNAN: Yeah.
(neither moves. Then they turn away together)
BOOTH: I like that thing around your neck.
BRENNAN: What?
BOOTH: That thing that you're wearing around your neck. It looks really good.
BRENNAN: (touching the necklace) Oh. You've seen it before.
BOOTH: I don't think so.
BRENNAN: Well...thanks.
BOOTH: Sure.
(They walk off together as the screen fades to black)
END
