THE DEATH OF THE QUEEN BEE
(Open: Barn - Night. Two girls enter, carrying blankets)
ANNA: This is my favorite spot.
DEDE: I've only been here with boys before.
ANNA: Me too, but I love that Katy Perry song so much. It speaks to me, you know?
DEDE: Totally.
(They place a blanket on the ground and lay down, facing each other)
ANNA: So.. Okay. Just kissing, not touching things or anything.
DEDE: No. Just the stuff that's in the song.
(They lean in and just as they're about to kiss, they hear a noise)
ANNA: I hear something.
DEDE: It's your heart b*at.
(They lean in again, and just as their about to kiss there's another noise)
ANNA: No, really. There's something out there.
(They turn to their right and look. A skull, covered in maggots, is flying towards them and hits Dede in the face, then lands on the blanket. They scream)
(Cut to: Woods - Day. Booth and Brennan arrive at the crime scene)
BOOTH: I can't believe you grew up in this area.
BRENNAN: Yes, I am an alumna of Burtonsville High.
BOOTH: Ever bring a boy out her and uh -
BRENNAN: And what? Touch his genetalia? No.
BOOTH: Whoa. 'Kay, I was thinking that maybe just a little smooching.
BRENNAN: I used to come out here to find animals to dissect; I didn't have a boyfriend.
BOOTH: Maybe because you were cutting up little woodland creatures, maybe?
(They meet up with the local Sheriff, Rebecca Conway, in the barn)
SHERIFF REBECCA CONWAY: I'm Sheriff Rebecca Conway. You the Federal backup?
BOOTH: (hoding up his badge) FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Nice wheels. Nice face and bod. Very nice.
BOOTH: (hesistantly) Thank you.
BRENNAN: We know each other. Becky, right? I'm Temperance.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Have I arrested you before, hun?
BRENNAN: No, you were my lab partner in Chemistry at Burtonsville High.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Are you absolutely sure? I have an excellent memory.
BRENNAN: Positive. Though you are thinner now which is better for your cardiovascular system. In high school you were quite over weight. Hence the derrision from the other students.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Yeah, I remember you know. Your creepy girl. So, you're in town for the reunion..
BOOTH: Ha ha ha. Reunion.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Yeah. (to Booth) I need a date - if you're free.
BRENNAN: We're just here to inspect the remains.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Oh. No surprise there. (she starts to lead them to the remains) Two girls were out here rolling around..
BOOTH: Two girls.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Yeah, it's the 21st, sweetheart. Get with the program. Anyway, that critter (points to a raccoon) ran into them right there with the skull on it's head.
BRENNAN: It was probably eating the brains and eyes. Often scavengers-
SHERIFF CONWAY: Don't need the details, Morticia. I'm keeping this quiet until I know what we're dealing with.
(Brennan examines the remains; She picks up the skull)
BRENNAN: Female. Age, indeterminite. Judging by the lack of staining, the v*ctim head was severed post-morteum.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Ugh. No. Not cut up.
BRENNAN: Well, I'm glad you kept this quiet, Becky. There are probably more remains in the area.
SHERIFF CONWAY: We're gonna need to search the bushes for more people parts, Lou!
(Cut to: Woods - Day.)
BRENNAN: I don't want the remains compromised.
BOOTH: Don't compromise the remains.
BRENNAN: She was a very careless lab partner.
BOOTH: You gotta go to your reunion, Bones. We already flew all the way out here.
BRENNAN: I'm not going. High school was not a happy time. For some reason, people didn't seem to like me.
BOOTH: Which is exactly why you have to go now. Reunions are made for you to smear your successes in other people's faces. Your accomplishments are gonna k*ll 'em.
BRENNAN: (bending down) I found something!
SHERIFF CONWAY: (O.S) Oh! Lou, stay right here.
BOOTH: Where are the ribs, Bones?
BRENNAN: According to the legend, they've been cooked and eaten.
BOOTH: Legend. What legend?
SHERIFF CONWAY: They say a spirit lives in these woods. He takes over a person, makes them k*ll.
BRENNAN: My senior year, a classmate was m*rder and dismembered just like this.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Ribs gone.
BRENNAN: They never found the k*ll.
SHERIFF CONWAY: The Butcher of Burtonsville High. He's back.
[OPENING CREDITS]
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensics Platform. Wendell unpacks the remains. Brennan is talking to the team, via a live video feed, from her hotel room in Illinois.)
WENDELL: The Butcher of Burtonsville?
BRENNAN: That's what we called him.
HODGINS: Insect activity puts time of death at approximately 10 days ago.
CAM: You should swab the dismemberment points - there could be trace evidence from the blade.
HODGINS: You know, you get very bossy when you don't have flesh to play with?
CAM: I am the boss.
WENDELL: (to Brennan) And he removed his v*ctim ribs because...
BRENNAN: He eats them. Barbecue.
CAM: You don't actually believe that.
BRENNAN: There's no evidence of cannibalism. It's merely an urban legend.
HODGINS: But they never found OUT who k*ll the girl in your class?
BRENNAN: No. Sarah Tidwyler. Booth is getting the old case files to find links.
WENDELL: The stumps on the v*ctim 4th and 5th ribs show evidence of hemorrhagic staining.
CAM: So two ribs weren't sawed off.
BRENNAN: Fractured and then snapped off it appears.
ANGELA: So, your high school is famous, Sweetie. The earliest reported mention of The Butcher of Burtonsville was in 1956. Young people were warned to aviod secluded locations at night, as there was a lunatic who k*ll and dismembered
his v*ctim, then barbecued and ate their ribs.
BRENNAN: Yet, until Sarah's m*rder it was just an urban legend - society's attempt to control behavior through a fear-based myth.
HODGINS: This is very teenage slasher movie-ish.
BRENNAN: Whatever blade was used left very clean and precise cuts.
CAM: It's always a tad creepy when you admire the k*ll handiwork.
(Cut to: FBI Headquarters - Sweets Office. Sweets is talking to Booth, via a live video feed from his hotel room. Sweets is looking over the file of Sarah Tidwiller.)
SWEETS: Now, this first v*ctim, Sarah Tidwiller, was a member of the class of '94?
BOOTH: And the second v*ctim was k*ll just before the reunion of the same class so it doesn't sound like a coincidence to me. The cops here agreed to keep everything quiet until we can ID the v*ctim and catalogue the evidence.
SWEETS: And this, uh, Ray Buxley, was a prime suspect in '94?
BOOTH: Yeah, he was the high school custodian, but they didn't have enough to hold him.
SWEETS: Lives alone. Low-status job. Obsession with gruesome crime stories. Surrounded by teenage girls. Very creepy. It's like Freddy creepy.
BOOTH: Okay, well. You can check him out.
SWEETS: Since you're trying to keep the town from another wave of collective hysteria, I wouldn't suggest announcing your FBI status.
BOOTH: We go undercover!
SWEETS: Exactly.
BOOTH: Since, uh, Bones is already invited to the reunion, we get more information if she's seen as alumni.
SWEETS: Alumna. Yes.
BOOTH: Yeah. Great. You know, correcting my Latin - not the best way to make friends.
SWEETS: Sorry.
BOOTH: Great. Okay. See ya later, Sweets.
SWEETS: Wait. Agent Booth?
BOOTH: Yes, Dr. Sweets?
SWEETS: You and Dr. Brennan are in the same motel?
BOOTH: Yeah, but they are not adjoining rooms. (he picks up the laptop to show Sweets the room) Okay, Sweets, look. They do not adjoin. See, the bathroom and I'm, uh, closer to the ice machine.
SWEETS: No, I'm merely asking because of your feelings for Dr. Brennan..
BOOTH: Alright, I get it. Alright, Sweets. I respect that but you know what? I've moved on. I already even have a date for next week.
SWEETS: (not believing him) Oh, really? Who might that be?
BOOTH: Thanks. Take care.
(Booth closes the laptop and connection)
SWEETS: Who might that be, Booth? Booth? Who might that be?
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Ookey Room. Wendell is carrying a tray)
WENDELL: There appear to be some metal flakes embedded in the margins of the bone.
HODGINS: Ooh. Come to the king.
WENDELL: Man. Social pressures, sports, sexual psychodramas; I'm surprised there aren't more m*rder in high school.
HODGINS: High school sounds a lot more exciting than mine.
WENDELL: Pretty tough place. A lot of violence, lot of drugs, lot of pregnancies.
HODGINS: So you've been through the 'babydaddy' scare before?
WENDELL: Before? Before What?
(It's then that Hodgins realizes that Angela never told Wendell that she had thought that she may have been pregenant)
HODGINS: Oh, no...
(Wendell heads out to find Angela)
HODGINS: oooh. Ugh.
(Hodgins runs off to try to b*at him there. Wendell stops to take off his gloves and Hodgins passes him up and runs into
Angela's office first.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office.)
HODGINS: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I had no idea you hadn't told him. Big mouth and I am sorry.
ANGELA: Big mouth what?
(Wendell enters, looking upset.)
ANGELA: Oh. (she realizes now what Hodgins is apologzing for) Oh.
WENDELL: You were pregnant?
(Hodgins heads toward the door)
HODGINS: I was gonna...leave but you're kinda in my - you know, I'm gonna go around..
(Wendell and Angela are alone)
ANGELA: No. I was not pregnant.
WENDELL: But you thought you might be pregnant.
ANGELA: Very briefly, Wendell.
WENDELL: Why didn't you tell me? I'm pretty sure I'm the only possibility.
ANGELA: Yes. Yes, of course. Do you think that we could talk about this later and - and maybe not here?
WENDELL: Oh, of course. I'm sorry - it was just - we can absolutely discuss this later.
(Wendell leaves)
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Day. Booth & Brennan are walking outside)
BOOTH: How well do you know this, uh, custodian.
BRENNAN: Very well. He used to find dead animals for me to dissect. We used to have long discussion about death. Mr.
Buxley would say that it was a natural process.
BOOTH: (chuckles) You were Wednesday Adams.
BRENNAN: I don't know what you're talking about.
BOOTH: Well, in high school you had a creepy custodian as a best friend; I bet you had a pet rat, too.
BRENNAN: No. I had a mouse and a snake and some spiders.
BOOTH: (sarcastically) Wow, and you weren't popular! Now, that's amazing.
(They turn the corner and run into Julie Coyle and Brad Benson)
JULIE COYLE: I am so sorry. My nerves are totally fried. I haven't slept in days because of this damn reunion.
BRENNAN: Julie Coyle?
JULIE: Yes. Do we know each other?
BRENNAN: Temperance Brennan.
(She shakes Julie's hand)
JULIE: Temperance! Oh, yes! (she pulls her hand away) You-you liked dead things.
BRAD BENSON: I thought that was you. Wow! The years have been very kind to you, Temperance. Very.
JULIE: Ha! Well, not that 'very'. She liked dead things, Brad.
BRENNAN: Yes, but now I'm a wealthy author and a successful scientist (to Booth) Did I do that right?
BOOTH: (to Brenna) No. (to Brad) I'm, uh, her husband. Bobby Kent. Temperance's lesser half.
BRAD: Ah, Brad Benson. Julie Coyle. So you guys have any kids yet?
BOOTH: Oh, no. Not yet but we want a house full, right?
BRENNAN: Yes. We have intercourse every chance we get.
BOOTH: Wow. Ah, yeah. I mean, all over the place.
JULIE: Well, we have a gym to decorate so..
BRAD: Oh, you know, Evelyn is gonna be so happy to see you, Temperance. "Bygones are bygones" she always says.
BRENNAN: You married Evelyn Simms?
JULIE: We were all so jealous. Evelyn's off saving some unpronounceable country.
BRAD: Ah, Nicaragua.
JULIE: See. (to Brad) So, Prom King Brad here has been giving me a hand.
BRAD: But Evvy is gonna be back flying back for the reunion, so we'll see you there. Good to meet you, Bobby.
BOOTH: Yeah. (to Brennan) Bygones be bygones? What did that Brad guy mean? What's going on between you and Evelyn? Something happen?
BRENANN: Not important. We were children. We should go see Mr. Buxley.
(Cut to: Founding Fathers. Angela and Wendell are having lunch.)
ANGELA: By morning, I knew I wasn't pregnant so I- I saw no reason to bring it up.
WENDELL: What you're saying would make perfect sense to Dr. Brennan but it - it feels wrong, you know?
ANGELA: Maybe I should have told you. I don't know. I - I just thought it was gonna bring up a bunch of questions that we weren't ready for.
WENDELL: I can answer those questions.
ANGELA: What do you mean?
WENDELL: If you got pregnant, it's your decision what to do.
ANGELA: Well, yeah. I know it is.
WENDELL: I get that but if you decided to keep the baby, I would do the right thing.
ANGELA: You would?
WENDELL: I absolutely would. I'd bear my share of the conqequences; more than my fair share. I'd marry you if that's what you wanted. I would do the right thing.
ANGELA: I'm sorry, Wendell. I should have told you.
(She puts her hand on his cheek, he leans over and kisses her on the cheek. They laugh.)
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Day. Booth and Brennan are outside the Custodian's Room)
BRENNAN: (knocking on the door) Mr. Buxley?
(When they get no response, they walk in the office. The walls are lined with sharp tools, knives, saws and stuffed dead animals.)
BRENNAN: Ah, I have so many fond memories of this place.
BOOTH: (sarcastically) Gee, I can't imagine why this guy was a suspect.
BRENNAN: Mr. Buxley?
(He suddenly appears, holding a plate of ribs. Brennan jumps)
BRENNAN: Ah, Mr. Buxley! It's good to see you.
MR. BUXLEY: And you. You grew up good.
(Brennan is obviously very happy about seeing him. She keeps smiling and laughing. Booth, on the other hand, thinks the guy is creepy and keeps eyeing him)
BRENNAN: Thank you. This is -
BOOTH: Her husband. Um, Bobby.
BRENNAN: My husband, Bobby.
MR. BUXLEY: Lucky man. You care for some ribs? Suculent. Juicy.
(He licks his fingers)
BOOTH: Uh, I'm fine. And I'm full. I already ate. You have quite the collection of blades around here.
MR. BUXLEY: Yeah, well a man never knows when he might need to cut.
BOOTH: That's quite a motto.
BRENNAN: I was just telling my husband about Sarah Tidwyler. Do you remember her?
MR. BUXLEY: Folks here thought I k*ll her.
BRENNAN: Well, not me.
MR. BUXLEY: No. No, not you. I could always count on you. Say, ya know. I might have me a dead rabbit around here. You like to cut it open?
BRENNAN: That is so sweet.
BOOTH: No, that's not sweet. I mean, not now. Probably because Mr. Buxley here has to get the campus ready for the big reunion, hmm.
MR. BUXLEY: I suppose.
BOOTH: Yeah, I'm sure you work long hours, late into the night, probably even weekends. Right? Maybe even the weekend before last. Were you working then?
MR. BUXLEY: Why'd you wanna ask me about that particular weekend?
BRENNAN: You know what? Just tell him or he'll keep asking. He can't help it. (she lightly punches him in the shoulder) He's a newspaper man.
MR. BUXLEY: Well, that weekend, I was away. I, uh...(he turns and puts the plate of ribs down and starts over to a closet) went and bought this.
(After a few seconds, he pulls out a copy of "Bred in the Bone" - Brennan's first book.)
MR. BUXLEY: First edition!
BRENNAN: My first novel!
MR. BUXLEY: You named the k*ll after me. I'da shed a tear if my duct worked proper.
BRENNAN: Awwww.
MR. BUXLEY: I'd thought you might be coming to the reunion; maybe you could, uh, put your pen to it for me. Would ya please?
BRENNAN: With pleasure.
BOOTH: Well, here. Use my pen.
(Booth eyes Mr. Buxley. Mr. Buxley eyes Booth. Booth does not trust this guy.)
BRENNAN: Thanks, sweetie. (she starts to write) "To the real Ray Buxley, Who taught me about death."
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Bone Room. Wendell is video conferencing with Brennan when Angela walks in.)
ANGELA: Hey, you said the skulls ready for me?
BRENNAN: What about casts of the blade injuries?
WENDELL: Still working on them.
ANGELA: Hey, sweetie. Wow, that is a crappy motel room.
BRENNAN: Oh, the bed has magic fingers!
ANGELA: Okay. I'm gonna drive by that one. Uh, how's the reunion?
BRENNAN: I find I am uncomfortable with people who disliked me in high school.
ANGELA: So you're pressed for an ID. I'll try to be quick with a facial reconstruction.
WENDELL: Turns out our v*ctim has a remodeled mandibular fracture, so that should narrow down the search.
BRENNAN: Let me look at that. Can you put it under the Medio Cam?
(Wendell moves the skull under the cam.)
ANGELA: Is there a problem?
BRENNAN: This fracture was made by a blunt object, striking her face at an almost 90 degree angle.
WENDELL: That's in my note, yes, and the remodeling gave us an appoximate age - about 30.
BRENNAN: 33. She was 33.
ANGELA: Well, how do you know that?
BRENNAN: Because I'm the one who broke her jaw. With a tennis racket. This is one of my classmates. Evelyn Simms.
(Cut to: FBI Headquarters - Sweet's Office. Sweets is video conferencing with Booth and Brennan, who are outside the school, by their car. They're scanning through Brennan's year book - checking out her classmates.)
SWEETS: So this (he pulls up a picture) is Evelyn Simms. Wow. Homecoming Queen, Cheerleading captain. President of the Girls Service Club - a girl like this, she wouldn't have given me the time of day. Which, of course, makes her that much hotter.
BOOTH: Sweets, I'm sure you really didn't want to say that outloud, right?
SWEETS: It slipped out.
BRENNAN: Everybody loved Evelyn.
BOOTH: A lot of people hated her, too, for being so popular. I mean, you were the one who decked her with a tennis racket.
BRENNAN: No. I- I -I never enjoyed playing doubles; someone is always in your way. Although my classmates thought I hit her on purpose.
BOOTH: Well, perhaps, subconsciously you did. I mean, a girl like yourself - with marginal social standing - takes out her hostility by striking the popular girl. I mean, it is quite common.
BRENNAN: Okay, that sounded clinical but felt very insulting. (to Sweets) What do you hope to find in 15 year old memorabilia.
SWEETS: Basic v*ctim. Now, we already know that there is a similarity in the method of k*ll. They're in the same class; perhaps there's an interpersonal connection.
BOOTH: (notcing a picture of Brennan) Whoa, Sweet! Hold it right there! (to Brennan) There you are! That's your high school picture! Why weren't you smiling?
BRENNAN: I wasn't amused by anything. Okay, none of this is pertinent to the investigation.
SWEETS: Reunions can rekindle old feelings of resentment. If a classmates life hasn't worked out, they might see Evelyn's happiness as a personal threat.
(Sweets stops at a picture of Sarah Tidwyler)
BOOTH: This is the girl that was m*rder in 1994.
BRENNAN: Yes. Sarah Tidwyler.
SWEETS: Physically, she appears nothing like Evelyn. No apparent interests in common.
BOOTH: Look, he has his arm around her.
SWEETS: That's Evelyn's husband, Brad.
BRENNAN: Yes. Brad was dating Sarah when she was m*rder.
SWEETS: And now he's married to the most recent v*ctim. That's a pretty strong connection.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensics Platform)
WENDELL: This is a cross section of the v*ctim distal femur. As you can see, the kerf wall is smooth - indicating whatever blade was used, the size of its teeth were small.
CAM: But it did have teeth, so we're looking for a saw of some type.
WENDELL: Judging by the bone loss from the cuts, a saw blade about 2 mm thick, I can't determine what type of blade yet, though.
CAM: Let me know when you can.
(Hodgins enters)
HODGINS: Whoa, hold on. Show and tell is not over yet. So, we have got two particulates transferred during dismemberment - it's a pretty messy process, well, with all that bl*od spurting and muscles and sinews tearing...
CAM: Okay, we get it. What did you find?
HODGINS: Well, after much effort - and expertise - I found calcium sulfate and flecks of 3003-H14 aluminum.
WENDELL: How are either of those, in any way, cooler than discovering the saw?
CAM: I'll let Dr. Brennan know that we are looking for a saw which can cut through metal. And you don't have to fight, you both did well. (she turns and walks away, then to herself) I run a kindergarten.
(Cut to: Brennan's Hotel Room. She is going through her bag when she gets an alert that someone is trying to contact her to video conference. She opens her computer screen to connect and it's Angela - in her office.)
BRENNAN: Yes.
ANGELA: Wendell was so sweet, ya know. He had this stiff upper lip and - and he kept telling me that he'd do the right thing. And his jaw was all tightened and manly.
BRENNAN: Wednell does seem to live by a very strong sense of morality and ethics.
ANGELA: He's probably the best guy I've ever met. I mean, he's good hearted and he's honest.
BRENNAN: You're saying good things, but your tone indicates you have doubts.
ANGELA: 'Cause when Hodgins thought I was pregnant he said "I'm your guy". Wendell talked about bearing the consequences and doing the right thing.
BRENNAN: Well, anthropologically speaking, males doing their duties form the bedrock of civilization.
ANGELA: That's not very poetic.
BRENNAN: Because males tended to find those duties onerous, they took every opportunity to avoid them. Mostly through geographic exploration, meaningless conquests and w*r.
ANGELA: Hodgins wanted to be with me and the baby, which I guess means that he's less likely, than Wendell, to go off and start a w*r, right?
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Day. Booth and Brennan are outside talking to Sheriff Conway.)
SHERIFF CONWAY: Brad was always the Golden Boy. Always got what he wanted. Rumor is his business isn't doing very good.
BRENNAN: Booth! You can't give this creedence. It's gossip, which by definition, is a form of entertainment - not information - and her grammar is appalling.
SHERIFF CONWAY: It is a miracle that you have any life whatsoever.
BRENNAN: You cheated off my tests in Chemistry.
SHERIFF CONWAY: (to Booth) I could supply you a little bit of fun while you're here because you're probably dying with this one.
BOOTH: We're talking about Brad Benson, right?
SHERIFF CONWAY: Right.
BOOTH: Right. Right.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Um, well. Brad has his own autobody shop and rumor is he's losing money. Big time.
BRENNAN: Owning his own auto body shop - he would have acces to a saw that cuts metal.
BOOTH: Well, I'll just get an Agent to check out his financials. Anything else?
SHERIFF CONWAY: No. I'm gonna go in the gym and see if they need help setting up. (to Booth) But if you need anything, holler.
(She walks away)
BRENNAN: If I had covered my paper, she would still be taking that class.
BOOTH: Wow.
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym. Booth and Brennan enter. Inside the Burtonsville High Gymnasium, volunteers set up for the reunion. Brad chops pineapples, Buxley splits wood, Julie hacksaws coconuts, Andy Pfleuger wields a power saw. w*apon are everywhere. )
BRENNAN: (to Booth) Andy Pfleuger. He used to have a crush on me.
(A quick montage of everyone cutting, sawing & chopping)
BRENNAN: You're right, Booth. It's nice to be back.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Bone Room.)
WENDELL: Okay, I found stab marks on the posterior and right lateral side. Posterior iliac spine, L1 & T10 vertebrae and
here on the inferior angle of the scapula.
CAM: Cause of death, Mr. Bray?
WENDELL: All the stabs wounds terminate in bone, so they wouldn't have been fatal, except for this one.
CAM: The w*apon could have passed through the 8th intercostal space, perforating the lung causing her to bleed to death.
HODGINS: The v*ctim husband had an auto body shop, right? Take a look at this. Looks like transfer from the m*rder
w*apon. Thin flecks of iridescent metal. You know, the kind that they use to coat a paint job on a car.
CAM: So the w*apon is found in an auto body shop?
WENDELL: I haven't ID'd the w*apon yet, but check out the microtomography. The blade was double-edged, with an identical taper on both sides.
HODGINS: So, someone k*ll her with a really sharp piece of pie.
(Cam gets a text message)
CAM: Oh, Angela has the photos Dr. Brennan uploaded of potential w*apon from the reunion.
HODGINS: w*apon. Yeah, we didn't have those at my reunion.

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. Angela has the pictures on the big screen and Cam, Wendell and Hodgins are
looking them over)
CAM: SO this is the class of '94.
WENDELL: Man, my high school's lookin' good.
ANGELA: I think Brennan was the normal one.
CAM: Do you see anything that could match the stab wounds?
WENDELL: No. The cleaver has a totally different blade profile.
HODGINS: Right, we're looking for a piece of pie, right?
ANGELA: Look at her.
(she pulls up a picture of a girl with a chain saw)
CAM: Zoom in on those tools on the table.
WENDELL: There. Can you give me the angle of that tabor?
ANGELA: Uh, 48 degrees.
CAM: Compare that to the marks on the bone.
ANGELA: It's pretty close. This ice carving tool could definitely be the m*rder w*apon.
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym. Sheriff Conway is tracing the lines in the ice sculpture with her finger)
SHERIFF CONWAY: Carrie is a sweetie pie! She made the cake for my birthday.
BRENNAN: Well, Carrie isn't here. Where did she go?
SHERIFF CONWAY: I don't know. You're the genius.
BOOTH: Any bad bl*od between her and Evelyn?
SHERIFF CONWAY: Evelyn is on the city council. She gave Carrie her catering contract for city functions, school lunches..
JULIE: She took it away, too. They had a big blow out. Now Carrie's lookin' for work. So, what's goin' on? Leaving me out of the gossip?
BRENNAN: No. I love to gossip. Remember when you were locked out of the locker room, in your underwear, and the boys took pictures and then they put it all over school?
(Becky & Brennan laugh)
JULIE: I can't believe you'd bring that up.
BOOTH: That's not gossip, honey. That's embarrassing.
JULIE: You're as clueless as ever.
(Carrie Turner appears carrying a cake across the gym, with a big kn*fe in one hand)
BRENNAN: There's Carrie.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Oh, I can't believe it'd be her. Her cakes are so light and fluffy.
(Cut to: Staircase near Founding Fathers. Angela and Wendell are sitting outside on the steps.)
WENDELL: You're breaking up with me?
ANGELA: Yes.
WENDELL: Because I would have done the right thing by you?
ANGELA: I'm not a duty, Wendell. You didn't do anything wrong. In - in fact, it's the opposite. You're the best. But you can't tell me that in the back of your heart you aren't thinking that another upcoming duty might be to let me down as gently as you can.
WENDELL: I really, really like you, Angela.
ANGELA: I really like you too. You're sexy and smart and good. You're like "saint" good.
WENDELL: Well, I'm a sexy saint.
(They laugh)
ANGELA: Hey. Do not knock that. It's a very rare and hot combo. You have somebody out there who isn't a duty.
WENDELL: So do you. I think we both know who.
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym.)
BOOTH: Okay, look. You have to question her. You know. As her old friend.
BRENNAN: No- she didn't like me then. No one did and they still don't. I obviously had no social k*ll.
BOOTH: They're not gonna suspect a thing, alright, because you're an alumni.
BRENNAN: Alumna.
BOOTH: UGH!
BRENNAN: Why can't I hang out with Mr. Buxley?
BOOTH: Listen, I'm gonna be right here next to you. Okay? You just go up to her and you say, "Hi. How are you?" and then you just, you know, spark up a conversation.
(They walk over to Carrie Turner and Andy Pfleuger)
BRENNAN: Hi, Carrie. How have you been? Hello, Andy.
ANDY PFLEUGER: Hello, Temperance. I'm the shop teacher now. In charge of the entire shop program. You look really good. Really.
CARRIE TURNER: Two seconds ago her was trying to get into my pants.
BOOTH: I'm her husband, Bobby Kent.
ANDY: Oh. Is the marriage working out because statistically...
BOOTH: Are you serious?
CARRIE: Go inflate a doll, Andy. (he leaves, Carrie sighs) Thanks for the rescue. So, you actually look normal now.
BRENNAN: Thank you. I heard Evelyn ruined your career.
CARRIE: But you're not, are you.
BOOTH: My wife just meant how difficult it must be with this economy and trying to find work. I know how terrible Temperance felt. Isn't that right, sweetheart?
BRENNAN: (unconvincing) Okay. Sure.
CARRIE: It is hard. I lost everything. Maybe it wasn't Evvy's fault but I had to go live with my parents until I find something else. Almost didn't make it back for the reunion.
BOOTH: So you weren't here this past weekend.
(Brennan's phone rings.)
CARRIE: No. I was buying diapers for my dad.
BRENNAN: (to Booth) Hodgins.
BOOTH: (to Brennan) Great. (to Carrie) You'll have to excuse us. That cake looks great, by the way.
CARRIE: Oh, yeah. Your cake isn't bad either. Are you sure you and Morticia are working out.
BOOTH: (he exhales) Slow down.
(They walk away, Brennan is on the phone with Hodgins at the Medico Legal Lab. He's in the Bone Room)
BRENNAN: Okay, Hodgins. What do you have?
HODGINS: Hey. So the calcium sulfate? It was plain, old chalk and the particles in the stab marks were clear coat varnish.
BRENNAN: Chalk and varnish. Well, do you have anything on the m*rder w*apon or the saw?
WENDELL: The negative hook angle on the striations on the bones indicate a bandsaw.
BRENNAN: (to Booth) Bandsaw.
BOOTH: Bingo.
BRENNAN: Bingo based on what?
BOOTH: Bingo, Bango. Where else are you gonna find a bandsaw and chalk?
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Hallway. Booth and Brennan are looking for the shop room.)
BOOTH: Shop class. No offense, but you know, I hate your school.
MR. BUXLEY: Temperance should too. (he suddenly appears at the top of a staircase, mopping the floor.) They never treated her good enough here.
BRENNAN: Hello, Mr. Buxley.
MR. BUXLEY: Careful in the dark, kids.
(A sound of a saw resonates through the hall)
BRENNAN: The saw.
(They head towards where the sound is coming from but Booth looks up at the staircase where Mr. Buxley was but he's already gone - just as quickly as he appeared.)
BOOTH: (starting after her) Careful, Bones.
(They find the Wood Shop, only to find Andy Pfleuger using the bandsaw to carve something out of wood. They get closer and see that he's spelled out "TEMPERANCE")
ANDY: Do you like it? You're one of my girls now, Temperance.
(They notice a wheel barrow filled with names of other girls made out of wood)
ANDY: Do you like it? It's just a token of my affection. It's for you, Temperance.
BRENNAN: Oh. Thank you, Andy.
(She takes the name plate, hesitantly)
BOOTH: No. No "Thank you, Andy." (he takes the name plate) She's married.
ANDY: Things happen.
BOOTH: Yeah. We know.
BRENNAN: You asked Sarah to prom, didn't you?
ANDY: Yeah. I mean, I think she would have went with me too, if she'da lived.
BRENNAN: Then did you think that Evelyn would leave Brad for you?
ANDY: Well, I've heard Brad has had business trouble. I mean, ya know, she deserves somebody who can provide her stability.
BOOTH: You know, I smell bleach, honey.
ANDY: I know. I came in here, the week before last, and the place was really spic and span. You know, Ray doesn't usually do such a good job.
MR. BUXLEY: Wasn't me.
BOOTH: Do you always just appear?
MR. BUXLEY: Bleach cleans bl*od. Maybe...somebody cut theirselves. Bad.
BRENNAN: You are good, Mr. Buxley. You are very good. Ah. I've missed you.
BOOTH: Did you want something, Mr. Buxley?
Mr. BUXLEY: Oh, right. Uh, Julie asked me to get you all upstairs, uh. Parties startin'.
ANDY: Uh, coming.
BRENNAN: We'll be right there. I want to show Bobby the picture of me in the science cabinet.
BOOTH: Oh, that'd be great. Where's that again?
BRENNAN: It's down the hall.
BOOTH: Hurry up.
(Brennan starts snapping pictures)
BRENNAN: Maybe Angela and Wendell can match the saw blade from the photos.
BOOTH: What if this whole place was bleached, there's gonna be a lot of bl*od.
BRENNAN: If Evelyn was dismembered here, even if the room was cleaned, the k*ll may have left some evidence.
BOOTH: I'll gonna go look for a w*apon.
BRENNAN: Pie-shaped point.
BOOTH: Right. Pie-shaped point.
BRENNAN: The saw would have created a lot of bone dust. (Booth gets a text message) Some of the dust could have gone in to this computer vent..
BOOTH: I'm getting a text.
BRENNAN: Found some. (She scrapes some of the dust in to an envelope) This might be bone dust.
BOOTH: Turns out, Brad had a large life insurance policy on Evelyn. He definitely knows his way around shop tools. The evidence sure points to Brad.
(Brennan finds a water cooler and fills a cup with water.)
BOOTH: What'd ya got?
(She then proceeds to dump the dust particles into the water to see if any of them sink - which would mean it's bone. Some of the particles sink.)
BRENNAN: Bone dust.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Lounge Area. Hodgins and Wendell are taking a coffee break.)
HODGINS: It's none of my business if you broke up with Angela.
WENDELL: It's your business because we're friends and it's kinda a big deal for me.
HODGINS: Oh. Yeah. Right. Uh, I'm sorry. Of course. You know what? You - you need to - you need to go out. And get drunk, you know. Pick a fight. Steal a car. Come on. I got your back.
WENDELL: What I need is for you to know that I did my best, concerning Angela.
HODGINS: Yeah. I know that already.
WEDELL: I haven't told you about it.
HODGINS: You don't have to; I know you.
(They move to the railing overlooking the platform)
WENDELL: Someday, maybe we can talk about what kind of woman Angela is.
HODGINS: Someday, yeah.
WENDELL: I guess, somewhere I always knew she was just on loan.
HODGINS: She is awesome, isn't she.
WENDELL: It was totally worth it, man. I mean...
HODGINS: I know.
WENDELL: I know you know.
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym. The party is in full swing now. Everyone is dancing, including Booth and Brennan)
BRAD: (on phone) Well, then let me talk to your supervisor's supervisor...
BOOTH: The sheriff said that Brad is upset. You know, Evelyn should be here by now.
BRENNAN: You know, a lot of people thought I k*ll Sarah. I think that's why they're so cold to me but I was fine, you know. I had science and history..
BOOTH: And Mr. Buxley.
BRENNAN: Yeah.
(Mr. Buxley is off to the side watching everyone. Becky and Andy are dancing. Carrie is looking on, upset and Brad is still on the phone)
BRAD: (on phone) Yes, I'll hold - for the 50th time.
BRENNAN: Oh! The Electric Slide was my favorite dance
(Brennan starts to do the Electric Slide while Booth does the Sprinkler and other cheesy dance moves)
BRENNAN: I never understood why my classmates didn't appreciate my dance moves more.
(The song changes. "A Kiss from a Rose" by Seal comes on and couples start to pair off to slow dance - while Booth tries to avoid slow dancing by talking about the case.)
BOOTH: So, we get anymore information from the squints on the m*rder w*apon?
BRENNAN: The ice carving tool was close but not an exact match.
BOOTH: Right. Let's get some punch. Let's get some punch.
BRENNAN: (stopping him) Oh! Can we dance? Booth?
BOOTH: What?
BRENNAN: It's Seal.
BOOTH: Well, it's a slow song.
BRENNAN: Oh, I'm sorry. Is that too difficult for you?
BOOTH: (hesitantly) Oh, I just don't want any misunderstandings, here, that's all, Bones. I mean, ya know, we, uh, opened a door that neither one of us wants to walk though.
BRENNAN: I know. I- I just was asking to dance. Because I remembered the song. I'm sorry.
BOOTH: Nah. You know what? Hey, it's just a dance. It's your reunion. Okay. Let's do it. Let's dance. Hey. Come on.
(Brennan moves towards him and wraps her hand around his neck, to get closer, but he pushes her away, placing his hands on her waist- leaving a huge space between them)
BOOTH: Okay.
BRENNAN: Oh. (she laughs) Why are you so far away?
BOOTH: You know, just keeping room for the Holy Spirit. That's all. (he looks over towards Mr. Buxley.) Yow!
(Brennan turns to look. Mr. Buxley is holding a sharp kn*fe)
BRENNAN: Why are you all so suspicious of Mr. Buxley?
BOOTH: Why? Because, you know, he's psycho, he has access to the shop and he has a huge kn*fe.
(Mr. Buxley is near a rope and takes the kn*fe and cuts it. Stars come down from the ceiling and everyone applauds.)
BOOTH: (looking at the stars) That is so cool. (he looks at Brennan) Bones, you're tearing up.
BRENNAN: This is the prom that I never got to go to.
(Booth smiles and moves towards Brennan, she moves in close and wraps her arms around his neck and places her head on his shoulder. At first, Booth is surprised but accepts the dance. They both seem apprehensive at first but after a few seconds, they both look content; happy to be there, dancing together and for those few moments, everything is how it should (could) be.)
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym. Time has passed but the party is still going strong. Booth and Brennan are sitting at a table, eating.)
BOOTH: Could be the shop teacher, right? Everyone turns him down and he freaks out because he's running out of time to lose his virginity.
BRENNAN: Well, you still haven't confirmed that Carrie was in Florida.
(Carrie walks up carrying pie)
CARRIE: Pie?
BOOTH: Oh, yeah. Sure, that's great. I love pie.
CARRIE: Can't believe Evelyn missed the reunion.
BRENNAN: If she never comes back, then you might get your catering contract back.
(Carrie walks away, annoyed)
BOOTH: See the serving thing? Could be the m*rder w*apon.
BRENNAN: The angles wrong. Andy asked me to Prom after Sarah was m*rder. I should have said yes; this is fun! (she laughs) Except for the m*rder. (She looks over at the stars) They're beautiful, aren't they?
BOOTH: (eating pie and not paying attention) Yeah, that's great.
(Brennan continues to look at them but suddenly, she realizes something.)
BRENNAN: The points are about 48 degrees. (she gets up) Just like Angela's estimate.
BOOTH: (noticing she got up) What are you doing. Whoa, whoa.
(He grabs his pie plate and follows after her)
BRENNAN: Excuse me.
(She moves a chair under one of the stars)
BOOTH: What are ya doing, Bones?
(Andy and Julie are talking when Julie notices Brennan on the chair)
JULIE: Look at her. She is still weird. Hands off, Morticia.
(Brennan pulls the star off the wire)
BRENNAN: (to Booth, handing him the star) Hey, just hold that. (She holds up her phone to take a picture) Just hold up the star and smile, sweetheart.
SHERIFF CONWAY: They're a frickin' love story and I'm feedin' cats.
(Brennan takes a picture, Booth is holding up the star and his pie - huge fake smile on his face.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. They're looking at the picture that Brennan just took of Booth on the big screen)
ANGELA: So the star points have a 52 degree taper.
CAM: An exact match for the injuries found on the bones.
ANGELA: Yeah, and the edging shows that the stars were cut by the same saw that was used to dismember the body.
HODGINS: But there are multiple wounds. It's hard to believe that she was stabbed, repeatedly, with the star until she was k*ll.
WENDELL: Can you show us the placement of all the bone injuries?
(She brings up a skeleton on the screen and denotes where the stab wounds were)
CAM: Stab wounds are usually localized.
ANGELA: Well, maybe there were multiple stars.
WENDELL: There. Look. The picture from shop class.
(Angela bring up the picture)
ANGELA: Okay, well this is the drying rack. Uh, this is where they placed the stars when the varnish was drying. So let's see if the points line up.
(Angela starts the animation)
WENDELL: The wounds are so deep, falling wouldn't k*ll her.
ANGELA: Well, unless somebody shoved her onto them.
WENDELL: That explains the two ribs that were broken and not cut. They were fractured when the m*rder through Evelyn onto the stars.
CAM: Digging the stars into her bones and puncturing the pleural cavity, k*ll her.
HODGINS: Somebody really hated her.
(Cut to: Burtonsville High School - Gym. Brennan is seated at a table, talking to Cam on the phone while Booth listens in.)
BRENNAN: (on phone) Okay, thanks, Cam. (she hangs up the phone then to Booth) The stars are the m*rder w*apon. They were made on the same bandsaw that dismembered Evelyn.
BOOTH: Who made the stars?
(Brennan spots Mr. Buxley sitting by the stage)
BRENNAN: I'll ask.
(She gets up and walks over to him)
MR. BUXLEY: You're not here for the reunion, are you Miss Temperance?
BRENNAN: No, Mr. Buxley.
MR. BUXLEY: Couldn't imagine that. So, who's dead.
BRENNAN: Evelyn. These stars were made here. In the shop.
MR. BUXLEY: The stars k*ll her?
BRENNAN: Do you know who made them?
MR. BUXLEY: Yeah. Julie. She made all the decorations. She's a regular Martha Stewart.
BRENNAN: Julie?
MR. BUXLEY: Yeah. Don't surprise me, though. One look at her and you can tell she's off. You know them smiley ones, they always give me the willies.
(Becky motions for Brennan to join her)
BRENNAN: What was wrong?
SHERIFF CONWAY: Um, Brad just got off the phone. Evvy never got to Nicaragua.
(Brad is sitting on the bleachers, Julie is talking to him - acting concerned.)
BRAD: Where could she be. Sh-she would have called, right?
(Julie gets up and puts her arm around him)
JULIE: Oh, honey.
BRENNAN: It was her, Booth. It was Julie.
(Cut to: Outside Burtonsville High School. Cop cars are all around and Julie is being led out by Booth, Brennan and Sheriff Conway, in handcuffs)
JULIE: Brad was mine. It was my turn to have him.
BOOTH: Beg your pardon.
JULIE: Evelyn and I made a pact in High School. We got rid of Sarah because she was sleeping with Brad. We had a pact!
BRENNAN: Evelyn and you k*ll Sarah?
JULIE: She was sleeping with Brad! He was ours. Evvy had him first and now it was my turn to have him. She wouldn't give him up. (to Sheriff Conway) Where is Brad, anyway? Someone should tell him that I'm here. He's gonna be worried about me.
SHERIFF CONWAY: Yeah. Um (she pushes her down into the car) Just get comfy. Watch the hair.
(Julie looks out the car window for Brad.)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Hodgins Office. Hodgins is putting away some files when Angela enters.)
ANGELA: Hey.
HODGINS: Hey.
ANGELA: Did, um..did Wendell tell you? (Hodgins gives her a knowing look) Of course he did, you're friends.
HODGINS: You okay?
ANGELA: Yeah. Yes, I am. As you know, I have some experience in this area. And, I'd like to know if Wendell's alright?
HODGINS: Well, he's doing much better than I did after we broke up.
ANGELA: Well, I don't want to be the kind of person who leaves this string of good-hearted guys behind her, ya know?
HODGINS: Ange, we broke up. Ya know. You did not dump me and Wendell is find. And I gotta tell ya, I think you left him in - in better shape than you found him.
ANGELA: I don't know about that. I mean, I'm pretty sure he was born that way.
HODGINS: Still. He is better for having known you, Angela.
ANGELA: And how can you be sure?
HODGINS: Because I've been there.
(Cut to: Founding Fathers Bar - Night. The whole gang is together, having drinks.)
SWEETS: Even ten or fifteen years later, you put the same, in the same environments and the exact same interpersonal relationships pick up where they left off.
BRENNAN: Well, when the wall fell - the majority of KGB Agents kept their positions when the organization turned to other endeavors.
BOOTH: Are you saying that high school is like the KGB.
HODGINS: Yeah.
CAM: Clandestine meetings, secret pacts, m*rder. Sounds like her high school.
BRENNAN: Well, I tried to change their perception of me by telling them how rich and successful I've become but they still didn't like me.
SWEETS: Why would you tell them that?
BOOTH: You know what? She didn't do it right.
HODGINS: You told her to do that.
BOOTH: Well, look. It had to be subtle.
ANGELA: I am so never going to my high school reunion, ever.
WENDELL: I think it'd be fun to see how everybody turned out.
HODGINS: Oh, heck, yeah! I'd love to see how Suzanne Dowell turned out. Oh, man. She used to wear these jeans...must have been painted on.
SWEETS: Stephanie Roberts and her little pink shirt.
CAM: Dr. Sweets, are you still with us?
(Cam laughs)
SWEETS: Sorry.
BOOTH: Look, they didn't dislike you, Bones, they just didn't understand you. That's a big difference.
BRENNAN: It didn't bother me. I found the reunion to be quite educational. And you were right. It was good to go back. It made me see how lucky I am. Now. This is what friendship is like; this table. I am very lucky.
HODGINS: Aww. Cheers!
(They all clink glasses/bottles)
EVERYONE: Cheers!
BRENNAN: Salud!
(They all continue to talk, laugh and drink.)
END.
