THE BOY WITH THE ANSWER
(Open: We hear a b*at. Brennan is running through what looks like a warehouse. She scared. She runs into a fence, unable to escape but then she hears a voice calling out to her.)
HODGINS: Help me! Help me!
(She runs towards the sound of Hodgins' voice. He's strapped to a conveyor belt, bleeding.)
BRENNAN: Hodgins!
HODGINS: Help me!
BRENNAN: Hodgins!
HODGINS: Dr. Brennan!
(Just as she gets to him, he's pulled away on the conveyor belt. She can't reach him.)
BRENNAN: Hodgins. HODGINS!!
(She hears another voice of in the distant. It's Booth. She runs toward the sound of his voice and finds him trapped in room.)
BOOTH: Boooonneeesss.
BRENNAN: Booth! Booth!
BOOTH: Stay with me!
BRENNAN: Booth!
(She tries to open the door. He's pounding on it. Then she sees the water rushing in the room behind him. He's going to drown if she doesn't save him. She continues to pound on the door. Ahand reaches from behind her and covers her mouth and she sees the water overtake him. The next second she 'wake up' and finds herself in clear box and she realizes she's stuck in a grave. She looks up and sees Heather Taffet with a shovel. Taffet starts to shovel dirt into the hole. Brennan screams and pounds her fists on the case. Taffet laughs. Brennan jolts awake. It was all just a nightmare.)
(Cut to: Brennan's Apartment. She's in the kitchen, getting ready for work while watching the news.)
REPORTER: (on tv screen) The Gravedigger case finally begins today with an evidentiary hearing. The defendant, prominent federal prosecutor, Heather Taffet, will be defending herself against multiple charges of kidnapping and m*rder. One charge involves 10 year old Terrence Gilroy, who has never been found. Testimony is expected from three kidnapping v*ctim: Seeley Booth, an Agent with the FBI, as well as scientists Jack Hodgins and Temperance Brenann from the Jeffersonian...
(Brennan turns off the Tv. She's heard enough. You can tell she's really been affected by this case.)
(Cut to: Courthouse. Booth and Brennan are in the hallway.)
BOOTH: You okay, Bones?
BRENNAN: Of course, why wouldn't I be?
BOOTH: Well, we're about to come head to head with the woman who tried to k*ll both of us.
BRENNAN: So are you. Are you okay?
BOOTH: SUre. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just checking in. Just wanted to make sure you're okay and if you need anything, I'm -
BRENNAN: It's just another case, Booth.
BOOTH: Right.
BRENNAN: (stopping) Dad!
(Max Brennan walks towards them)
BOOTH: Max.
BRENNAN: Wha-what are you doing here?
MAX: Just thought you should have a little support from somebody who's been through the legal system a few times.
BRENNAN: Why is everyone treating me like a child?
MAX: Because I don't want you to get your hopes up. This is far from a slam dunk.
BOOTH: That's exactly why Caroline here. Alright? We have five cases, multiple counts: Bones,
Hodgins, the 10 year old boy..
MAX: Whose body has never been found. Your prosecutor's getting desperate.
BOOTH: Max, she knows what she's doing. Okay?
BRENNAN: I thought you were here for support, dad?
(Cut to: Courtroom. Brennan is seated in the front row between Max & Booth. Hodgins, Angela & Cam are seated right behind them. Heather Taffet is brought into the court room. She's wearing an orange jumper and handcuffs and eyes Booth, Brennan & Hodgins.)
JUDGE REILLY DUFREY: Okay. You all ready to play nice?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Always, Your Honor.
HEATHER TAFFET: Your Honor, since I'm representing myself - I'd like to request that my shackles be removed while I'm in court?
CAROLINE JULIAN: This is only an evidentary hearing, Your Honor. There's no jury to prejudice and frankly, I feel a bit more secure with her in chains.
JUDGE DUFREY: Spare us the dramatic flourishes, Miss Julian. When we go to trial, we can revisit the request, Miss Taffet. First witness.
(Cut to: The next scene cuts between everyone taking the stand)
CAM: Burn marks were found on the v*ctim that were consistent with injuries one would sustain from a 3 million volt stun g*n.
BOOTH: The stun g*n was found in the suspects storage locker. It matches the stun g*n that was used on the attack on me..
HODGINS: The suspects steel-toed boots were also found in the storage locker.
HEATHER TAFFET: This storage locker was found with information obtained illegally, wasn't it?
CAM: We didn't know that at the time, Your Honor. We obtained a legal warrant to search the locker.
HEATHER TAFFET: The fact that Agent Booth's brother gave you the lead didn't make you suspicious?
BRENNAN: He was an officer assigned to Homeland Security. We had no reason to question the information provided.
CAROLINE JULIAN: The warrant was obtained without malice.
HEATHER TAFFET: That's irrelevant, Your Honor. Everything found in that storage locker should be dismissed.
CAROLINE JULIAN: I submit that a warrant wasn't even necessary. Under precedent of imminent danger - law authority have the duty to enter that storage locker without a valid warrant. Agent Booth's life was in danger.
HEATHER TAFFET: Imminent danger applies only if law enforcement hears a violent threat or struggle at the scene.
JUDGE DUFREY: I'm sorry, Miss Julian. No matter how pure the intention, the warrant was obtained illegally. Therefore, any and all evidence gathered during the search and seizure is inadmissible.
HEATHER TAFFET: Thank you, Your Honor.
JUDGE DUFREY: This was not a personal favor, Miss Taffet. I am restrained by the law.
HEATHER TAFFET: I'd like to move that all charges be dropped, Your Honor.
CAROLINE JULIAN: You'd like that, wouldn't you? We still have dirt samples from the crime scene. The ransom tapes..
HEATHER TAFFET: Your Honor, this is a waste of the courts time and the tax payers money.
CAROLINE JULIAN: If I lose, I'll send everyone a note of apology.
JUDGE DUFREY: You aren't left with much, Miss Julian. You sure you want to proceed?
(Caroline looks at Taffet and then turns around and looks at Booth, Brennan and Hodgins and she knows that they need this.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: (adamantely) Yes, Your Honor.
JUDGE DUFREY: Okay. The charges stand. We're going to trial. Court is adjourned.
(Taffet walks over to where Brennan is.)
HEATHER TAFFET: If you're so brillant, Dr. Brennan, why couldn't you find something as simple as the number?
(The guards take her away as Booth comes up next to Brennan.)
BOOTH: You alright? What'd she say?
BRENNAN: She says I missed some evidence.
BOOTH: What evidence?
BRENNAN: She doesn't think I can find it.
[OPENING CREDITS]
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. Angela is running a program through the computer.
Brennan enters.)
BRENNAN: Booth is getting her arrest records as well as old case files from when she was a prosecutor.
ANGELA: Okay, uh, I'm pulling every record we have so far associated with Taffet. Social security numbers, birthdates, bl*od test results.
CAM: Ages of the v*ctim?
ANGELA: Got those. I'm using a recursive search algorithim, which analyzes and cross references the data. Since they're related, any inconsistencies can raise a red flag.
HODGINS: I think Taffet is just messing with us again.
SWEETS: I have to disagree. Her pathology is consistent; this is all a game to her. She won the first round so now she's upping the stakes by challenging Dr. Brennan.
HODGINS: Yeah, or maybe she knows there's something in the soil samples we already have so she's just trying to distract us.
SWEETS: YOu analyzed those soil samples a hundred times.
HODGINS: Are you telling me to give up, Sweets?
SWEETS: No, of course not. But I mean, I understand the need to cling to anything..
HODGINS: Cling. Okay, so I'm crazy now.
SWEETS: That's not what I meant.
CAM: Go, Dr. Hodgins. Look at the soil again. You may find something.
(Hodgins leaves.)
ANGELA: You know, he still gets nightmares. Says he wakes up in a sweat.
SWEETS: I should have been more sensitive. (to Brennan) This must be difficult for you too. If you need any..
BRENNAN: I'm fine. What about the weight and size of the v*ctim remains?
ANGELA: Yeah. That's a good idea. I'll check it out.
(Brennan leaves.)
(Cut to: Royal Diner. Caroline enters the diner carrying a box and sets it on Booth's table.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: Here are the first set of documents you asked for. More numbers than I've ever seen in my life.
BOOTH: Right. Thanks. You okay?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Oh, you mean because this case is a career k*ll? I'm cute. I can always find a job.
BOOTH: Well, they're gonna come up with something. They always do. Right?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Do you really believe that, Cherie?
BOOTH: Well, they saved my life, remember? That was impossible.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Well, I'll give you that one. So, how's your girlfriend holding up?
BOOTH: She's fine. She's not my girlfriend.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Oh, so those little looks between you...
BOOTH: Nothing.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Right. I hope you're more believeable on the stand. Have Angela run these numbers as quickly as she can. The judge isn't gonna give me more than a day.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. Angela is listening to the Gravediggers ransom tape from the latest v*ctim.)
GRAVEDIGGER: (AUDIO) If I don't receive the money in the numbered account within 8 hours, your child will die. This is the last time you will hear from me. There will be no further communications.
(Hodgins enters)
HODGINS: What happened to the numbers?
ANGELA: Well, I came up dry. Brennan and Booth are compliling another set but until then, I'm trying to drag Taffet's voice from these ransom tapes.
HODGINS: Well, any luck?
ANGELA: She used a variable band inversion, so the wave is broken up into hundreds of small sections. Each section scrambled with different frequency sequencing.
HODGINS: You didn't ask me if I found anything new in the soil samples.
ANGELA: Did you?
HODGINS: No. Of course not. Sweets was right. You knew that. I'm barely keeping it together here, Ange.
ANGELA: Well, you were uh, you were sane enough to marry me.
HODGINS: I don't feel strong enough to tell anybody yet. I feel like she's still got me locked up, you know? I mean, when I see her there's just this, um, anger. I mean, it's like a helplessness that comes-
ANGELA: I know. I know.
HODGINS: When I was buried in that car, I didn't think I was ever going to see you again. And now, I feel like she's still in between us.
ANGELA: Well, she's not. Look at me. She's not. Nobody can get between us.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Brennan's Office.)
BOOTH: Come on, Bones. You've been at it for hours. You gotta eat something.
BRENNAN: In a little while. Her old court documents from when she was a prosecutor have case numbers, criminal code numbers and then there are zip codes.
BOOTH: Well, that's great and all but it's not going to be any good if you starve yourself to death.
(He put a contain of Chinese food on the table in front of her.)
BRENNAN: She was laughing at me, I - I can't let her win.
BOOTH: She won't.
BRENNAN: You hope. She may be amoral, but she is brilliant.
BOOTH: Well, you're more brilliant.
BRENNAN: What if her dispassion makes her more logical. What if that gives her and advantage over me?
BOOTH: Wait a minute. Now you're upset because you're not more like a psychopath?
BRENNAN: I just think...maybe I've lost my advantage because of all the people I've involved with now. All of the relationships, they complicate logical thought.
BOOTH: You don't mean that.
BRENNAN: Could we please just work.
BOOTH: Sure.
(Brennan reaches for the food container while Booth picks up a file.)
BOOTH: Salt Lake City?
BRENNAN: What?
BOOTH: When we arrested Taffet she used her one phone call from jail to Salt Lake City - area code 801.
BRENNAN: Well, she's representing herself, so it couldn't be to a lawyer.
(Booth dials the phone)
BRENNAN: Who would she call in Salt Lake City?
VOICE: Larry's Pizza. How may I help you?
(He hangs up. They're both confused.)
(Cut to: FBI Headquarters - Booth's Office.)
BOOTH: None of the employees at the pizza place have a connection to Taffet. None of 'em here have any criminal records.
BRENNAN: The phone records show that Taffet hung up after 10 seconds.
BOOTH: She didn't request another call.
BRENNAN: Angela's matching the number with the numerical sequencing program. This is the number, Booth. This has to be the number.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. She's running numbers on the screen again)
ANGELA: I'm running a numerical sequencing program to see if there's a match with any of our v*ctim. I'm coming up with nothing.
(A number starts to form on the screen)
ANGELA: Oh, my god. The number is a GPS location.
(The program narrows in on a small spot in Nottoway County, Virginia.)
(Cut to: Crime Scene in Virgina. An officer is putting up caution tape as Booth and Brennan arrive.)
BOOTH: So, everybody out.
BRENNAN: Oh, god.
BOOTH: Oh, god.
(Brennan approaches the old freezer and slides down the top section)
BOOTH: It's the kid, isn't it?
BRENNAN: (using a flashlight) Terrence Gilroy had a remodeled right ulna from a break when he was 8.
(She reaches in and lifts the ulna. It's remodeled.)
BRENNAN: Yeah. This is the boy she kidnapped.
BOOTH: I'll call the parents.
BRENNAN: Why did she lead us here, Booth? Why did she want us to find him?
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensics Platform. Brennan and Hodgins are about to start examining the remains of Terrence Gilroy when Caroline stops her.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: Hands off!
SECURITY GUARD: Ma'am!
(Caroline sets off the alarms as she enters the platform.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: No one touches a thing!
HODGINS: What are you talking about?
BRENNAN: This is our chance to get some hard evidence they can't dismiss.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Not if you touch it. You can't act as an expert witness in a case when you are also a v*ctim.
HODGINS: We aren't v*ctim in this crime.
CAROLINE JULIAN: We filed one complaint with seven counts. Since the trial started, you and Dr. Brennan are linked to all the crimes.
BRENNAN: That's why Taffet wanted us to find the boY. She knows we're the only people who have the k*ll to connect her to the crime.
HODGINS: And now our hands are tied.
BRENNAN: Not if you drop our case.
HODGINS: Excuse me?
BRENNAN: If Caroline doesn't prosecute our kidnappings, we'd be free to testify as expert witnesses in the boys case.
CAROLINE JULIAN: You'd be willing to do that?
HODGINS: Noooo. No. Caroline has to prosecute our case. Taffet tried to k*ll us.
BRENNAN: All of our evidence has been thrown out. The rational thing to do is to persue a case with fresh, untained evidence.
HODGINS: Are you kidding me?! Is it really that easy for you to forget what happened to us?
BRENNAN: I will never forget what happened to us. Or to Booth. Or this boy. You are not the only one suffering, Dr. Hodgins but your emotions have no relevance. Not if we want to convict Taffet.
HODGINS: (throwing his gloves on the table) This better work.
(He leaves the platform.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: I'll have the charges dismissed in the morning; you can start right after that.
(Cut to: Brennan's Apartment. She's reading through the files when she hears a knock at the door. She looks through the peep hole; It's Booth.)
BOOTH: So the Gilroy kid? He was last seen at the Rockland Mall on June 23. I'm gonna check all Taffet's credit card records for that day too.
BRENNAN: Caroline said you can't give expert testimony if she's prosecuting your case.
BOOTH: I told Caroline to drop my charges too. I'm not gonna let you do this alone. She's gonna see the judge tomorrow morning at 10 and then we can dive in on all this.
BRENNAN: Thanks, Booth.
BOOTH: We're partners. That's what we do. Right?
BRENNAN: If Taffet is acquitted on this count, she can never be tried again. Maybe that's why she wanted us to find the boy.
BOOTH: Yeah, well she arrogant, like Sweets said. And she's misjudging you.
BRENNAN: I have nightmares, Booth. Hodgins is bleeding, you're drowning. I-I can't help anyone.
BOOTH: Alright, you know what? She's never gonna get the better of you, alright? Just know that. Alright? I promise. Okay?
(He hugs her - she hugs him back)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensics Platform. Brennan & Cam are examing Terrence Gilroy's remains.)
BRENNAN: These are peri-mortem fractures, bi-laterally on the fifth, sixth and seventh ribs. On the posterior axillary.
CAM: And injuries to the greater cornu and the left lateral thyroid and cricoid cartilages. I see injuries like this in v*ctim who've been strangled.
BRENNAN: Perhaps he struggled and Taffet was trying to subdue him.
CAM: Taffet tasered all her v*ctim - three million volts - that should be enough to knock out a 10 year old boy for at least a few hours.
BRENNAN: He wasn't unconscious. These are defensive wounds. Consistent with the boy resisting being placed in the freezer; arms out-stretched.
CAM: I'll take samples from under his fingernails. Maybe he scratched her during the struggle.
BRENNAN: Maybe she knew that facts in this case wouldn't be consistent with the other crimes and would give her reasonable doubt.
(Cut to: Courtroom - Booth is testifying over a montage of Brennan & Hodgins gathering evidence)
BOOTH: We have evidence from credit card charges that the defendent was at the Rockland Mall the day that Terrence Gilroy was abducted. The team at the Jeffersonian discovered that the number Taffet called, turned out to be the same as the GPS coordinates as to where the boy was buried. Same M.O., same ransom tape, same demands as the other kidnappings.
HEATHER TAFFET: Do you have any evidence that the Gilroy boy was abducted from the mall.
BOOTH: It was the last place he was seen.
HEATHER TAFFET: So, no. Did anyone else make any purchases at the mall that day or was it just me?
BOOTH: Of course they did.
HEATHER TAFFET: As for the phone call, that I alledgely made, is it possible that the number was placed in my file by mistake?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Objection! Conjecture.
JUDGE DUFREY: Sustained.
HEATHER TAFFET: Did you know the officer on duty the night I was arrested was from Salt Lake? (This is news to Caroline & Booth) Answer the question, Agent Booth.
BOOTH: No.
HEATHER TAFFET: Isn't it more likely that he made that call and the number was placed in my file by mistake.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Objection! Conjecture again.
HEATHER TAFFET: I thought it was reasonable doubt. Very reasonable.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Your Honor.
HEATHER TAFFET: Withdrawn. No further questions, Your Honor.
(Cut to: Courthouse. Booth is leaving the courtroom when he runs into Max.)
MAX: You know that Taffet's playing you, right?
BOOTH: We're fine, Max.
MAX: No. She's got you all on defense.
BOOTH: We got the boy, alright?
MAX: It's cause she wanted you to.
BOOTH: Every psycho takes one step too far and hangs themself.
MAX: Not before a lot of innocent people get hurt. I'll see ya later.
(Max leaves Booth wondering what he was talking about.)
(Cut to: FBI Headquarters - Sweet's Office. He hears a knock on the door - it's Cam.)
CAM: Hey. Sorry to bother you. Do you have a minute?
SWEETS: Yeah, sure.
(Cam enters and sits down)
SWEETS: How's it going?
CAM: I don't know, actually. It's why I'm here. I'm - I'm worried, Dr. Sweets. I - I - this case is taking its toll on everyone.
SWEETS: Including you?
CAM: Including me. Yes.
SWEETS: It's a very stressful situtaion, I mean, you're not immune to that.
CAM: I feel like everything's fraying around the edges. We're all searching for some piece of evidence that can put Taffet away but we keep coming up empty. Everyone feels manipulated by her and I-I should be able to pull everyone together - keep them on track..
SWEETS: You want to guarentee the outcome. (She nods her head) I wish that were possible. You know, we knew this was gonna be an uphill battle.
CAM: But did we really believe that? We all knew she was guilty, so someplace we assume that, in a just world, she'd pay for what she did.
SWEETS: That assumes a just world, I'm afraid.
CAM: These...are my people she hurt. My friends. I should...be able to do something.
SWEETS: I know.

(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
(Cut to: Outside the jail. The Sheriff's Department van is bringing Taffet back for the day. Max emerges from just beyond the fence - r*fle in hand. They bring Taffet out, Max aims the r*fle. She's in his crosshairs and he's about to sh**t when he hears Booth call his name.)
BOOTH: Max. You didn't think I was gonna follow you.
(Booth starts runnign towards him when he realizes what he's about to do. Max tries to line up the sh*t but Booth tackles him to the ground before he can.)
BOOTH: Max, this is what you want?
MAX: Don't trust the system, Booth!
BOOTH: You miss, you compromise the case, Taffet walks.
MAX: I don't miss.
(Max punches Booth and goes for his g*n. Booth gets back up and punches him back
BOOTH: When are you gonna learn to stop messing with me, huh?
MAX: You're making a big mistake; Tempe could die.
BOOTH: okay, up. Come on.
(He pulls Max off the ground)
(Cut to: FBI Headquarters. Booth and Brennan are getting off the elevator.)
BRENNAN: He tried to k*ll her?
BOOTH: Well, he had a r*fle pointed right at her so you do the math.
BRENNAN: Why, why would he do that?
BOOTH: To protect you and a career criminal, like Max, he obviously doesn't trust the legal system.
BRENNAN: Wha-I'm sorry. I wish he were different.
BOOTH: Yeah, me too. You know, he socked me in the eye too.
(Brennan's phone rings)
BRENNAN: (answering) Brennan.
MAX: (on phone, in jail) Hey, honey. I need you to bail me out.
BRENNAN: What! No, dad!
MAX: I was doing it for you.
BRENNAN: No! I don't want you to k*ll people for me! Just buy me a sweater, like a regular dad.
BOOTH: (to Max) Leave her alone, Max.
BRENNAN: Booth says you're not getting out until after the trial is over. I have to go.
MAX: I've got a bad back. You know what the beds are like in jail.
BRENNAN: Goodbye, dad.
(She hangs up her phone)
BOOTH: I'm sorry, Bones. I'm sure this is the last thing you want to deal with.
BRENNAN: Yeah. Part of me wishes he did it.
BOOTH: Well, not the good parts so let's just keep our eye on the ball. (Brennan nods.) So, any news about the boy?
BRENNAN: I'm getting an accurate recreation of the assailant from the fracture patterns on his remains and it's a match for Taffet. I'm putting a presentation together.
BOOTH: The kid, he put up a good fight.
BRENNAN: There's evidence of strong resistence. Yes.
BOOTH: At least he didn't go easy. (He picks up a picture of Parker.) Parker, he'd do the same thing. Probably bite her ear off and run.
BRENNAN: What, he'd bite her?
BOOTH: Yeah. 10 year olds...it's kinda their thing. Bite.
(Brennan realizes something)
BRENNAN: I have to get back to the lab.
(She runs out of his office)
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Forensics Platform.)
BRENNAN: If the boy bit her, there should be some evidence on his maxilla, mandible or his teeth.
HODGINS: The teeth seem to have been cleaned. Taffet probably wiped them off.
BRENNAN: Second left premolar is chipped. There might be some trace in the abrasion, maybe some tissue from Heather Taffet.
HODGINS: Saliva contains amylase that would have broken down any bits of tissue.
BRENNAN: Not if it were imbedded between the teeth or under the gum line.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. Angela, Hodgins & Cam are listening to the results of Angela's work on the audio. The audio is still a bit jumbled, but you can definitely start to hear Taffet's voice coming through.)
THE GRAVEDIGGER: If I don't receive the money in the numbered account within eight hours, your child will die. This is the last...
ANGELA: Okay, this encryption is a rolling code split band voice inversion. Individual frequencies between the clicks are inverted and recombined. I applied software that decrypts each of the 423 separate segments until the voice becomes clear.
THE GRAVEDIGGER: If I don't receive the money in the numbered account within eight hours, your child will die. This is the last time you will hear from me. There will be no further...
(Audio becomes clear - it's Heather Taffet)
CAM: You did it, Angela. It's Taffet.
ANGELA: Like to see her explain away that one.
THE GRAVEDIGGER: (audio) If I don't receive the money in the numbered account within eight hours, your child will die.
(Cut to: Fade into Courthouse - Courtroom. Angela is on the stand playing the decrypted audio clip of the ransom tape)
THE GRAVEDIGGER: (audio) This is the last time you will hear from me. There will be no further communications.
CAROLINE JULIAN: And in your expert opinion, Ms. Montenegro, whose voice is that?
ANGELA: It's Heather Taffet. The frequency and vocal patterns are an exact match when compared to unencrypted recordings of her voice.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Thank you. No further questions.
HEATHER TAFFET: That was very impressive, Ms. Montenegro. Could you share your credentials with the court?
ANGELA: I have a bachelor of fine arts from the University of Texas with a minor in computer science. And I've also studied biomedical illustration at American University.
HEATHER TAFFET: But you do not have a degree in sound engineering, is that correct?
ANGELA: No.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Objection. Ms. Montenegro has numerous patents pending from her work in auditory forensic reconstruction.
HEATHER TAFFET: The homeless man on my street has a patent pending for a time machine. That doesn't mean I'm going to ask him to testify in court.
JUDGE DUFREY: That's enough, Ms. Taffet. Do you have anything else for this witness?
HEATHER TAFFET: Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to introduce into evidence item 461B, which is a deconstruction of the same ransom tape by former FBI special Agent Graham Steele, who has a Phd in forensic auditory analysis from the University of Pennsylvania.
ANGELA'S VOICE: (audio) If I don't receive the money in the numbered account within eight hours, your child will die. This is the last time you will hear from me. There will be no further communications.
ANGELA: Th-that isn't me. He obviously manipulated the pitch and the timbre of the voice.
HEATHER TAFFET: Isn't that what you did?
ANGELA: No. Those sound waves have an underlying pattern of frequency modulation. Like a fingerprint.
HEATHER TAFFET: Whatever the technical jargon, it seems clear that anyone, even someone without any credentials, can make one voice sound like another.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Objection! Counsel is making speeches.
JUDGE DUFREY: Sustained.
HEATHER TAFFET: I'm sorry, Your Honor. No further questions.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Brennan's Office. Booth walks in.)
BOOTH: Hey, Bones, you ready for court?
BRENNAN: Yes. I have a video presentation which shows the v*ctim sustained rib fractures as well as a fracture of the lateral epicondyle of the left distal...
BOOTH: What do you say we ease up on the scientific stuff, okay?
BRENNAN: The science gives us the height of the assailant. 162 centimeters. Taffet's height.
BOOTH: That's...that's..that's good and all, but Taffet's kind of had a field day, you know, trashing the whole technical goobledy stuff. And the jury seems to like her for it.
BRENNAN: But those are the facts.
BOOTH: It's how you present the facts that win or lose a case. Bones, the jury needs to know what that little boy went through.
BRENNAN: I've - I've testified before, Booth. I'll be fine. We-we should go.
BOOTH: Okay.
(Cut to: Courthouse - Courtroom. Brennan is on the stand, testifying to what happened to Terrence Gilroy)
BRENNAN: Terrence Gilroy's left greater cornu of the hyoid was compressed, indicating that the assailant strangled the young boy using only one hand--the dominant left hand, in this case.
CAROLINE JULIAN: I'd like to submit writing samples which confirm that the defendant is left-handed.
HEATHER TAFFET: No objection, as long as it's also noted that 8% of the general population is also left-handed. Including you, Your Honor.
JUDGE DUFREY: Continue.
BRENNAN: The v*ctim sustained a fracture of the lateral epicondyle and the shaft of the left distal humerus. (she looks at Booth) Perhaps I can be clearer. Terrence Gilroy's bones could only have been broken by someone kneeling on top of him as they pushed him into the freezer. The radiating fracture lines show that this assailant had to be between 125 and 135 pounds-- the weight of the defendant.
HEATHER TAFFET: Objection. This is speculation.
BRENNAN: Are you questioning my qualifications? Because you will not find a more experienced or respected forensic anthropologist anywhere in the world. So I'd appreciate not being interrupted until I finish testifying.
JUDGE DUFREY: Dr. Brennan, I'll make the rulings here. Overruled. Continue.
BRENNAN: Since these broken bones were caused by the assailant's knees and the chipping on the boy's kneecaps was caused by the toes of her heavy boots, we can determine the length of her shin.
CAROLINE JULIAN: And what is the significance of the shin length?
BRENNAN: It gives us the height of the assailant, which is five feet, four inches. The same height as the defendant. It is clear from the circumstantial evidence and these facts that this child was attacked with vicious cruelty by Ms. Taffet.
HEATHER TAFFET: Objection. The jury makes that determination, not the witness.
BRENNAN: The five-foot-four assailant - crushed the boy's chest, choked him and finally caused him a torturous death by burying him alive.
HEATHER TAFFET: Objection. Speculation. She can't know what the witness felt.
BRENNAN: I was buried alive. Which makes me uniquely qualified to comment on its horror.
HEATHER TAFFET: Objection, Your Honor. This is grandstanding. Unless the witness has any additional facts...
JUDGE DUFREY: Sustained. Do you have any further questions for Dr. Brennan, Ms. Julian?
CAROLINE JULIAN: No, Your Honor. I learned everything I need to know. Your witness.
HEATHER TAFFET: Dr. Brennan, don't you think your trauma as a kidnapping v*ctim prevents you from being objective?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Objection. She is testifying as an expert witness, not a v*ctim.
HEATHER TAFFET: She brought up being buried alive, Your Honor.
JUDGE DUFREY: She did, Ms. Julian. Overruled.
HEATHER TAFFET: It's only natural that you would want to construct facts that would give you some closure and peace.
BRENNAN: I resent your implication. I do not let my emotions cloud my findings.
HEATHER TAFFET: No, not intentionally, of course.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Is there a question coming?
HEATHER TAFFET: Yes. Sorry. Dr. Brennan, you are currently seeing an FBI psychologist, are you not?
BRENNAN: What - that has nothing to do with...
HEATHER TAFFET: A yes or no is all that's required, Dr. Brennan. Are you currently seeing an FBI psychologist?
BRENNAN: Yes, but...
HEATHER TAFFET: Thank you. No further questions.
BRENNAN: No, that has nothing to do with this case. My findings are sound.
JUDGE DUFREY: You may step down, Dr. Brennan.
BRENNAN: My findings are sound.
(Cut to: Medico Legal Lab - Angela's Office. A picture of a dust mite is on the screen)
CAM: A dust mite?
SWEETS: So that little bug is gonna save us?
HODGINS: Oh, don't call him a bug. Sounds insulting. We reexamined the boy's teeth and found it wedged between the right lateral incisor and canine. Dust mites eat dead human skin cells and this one's stomach sac is full.
CAM: If the boy bit Taffet, the skin cells are probably hers. Whatever's left is gonna be small, but there might be enough to give us DNA.
(Cut to: Courthouse - Courtroom. Hodgins is on the stand.)
HODGINS: This is a dermatophagoides farinae.
CAROLINE JULIAN: For those of us who don't speak insect, what is that, exactly?
HODGINS: It's a dust mite: an insect found on clothes, but it also feeds on the cells of the person wearing those clothes.
CAROLINE JULIAN: And where was this dust mite found?
HODGINS: Between Terrence Gilroy's teeth. It was transferred there when the boy bit the person who kidnapped him.
CAROLINE JULIAN: And how do we know that?
(Cut to: Courthouse - Courtroom. Cam is now on the stand.)
CAM: The dust mite contained human female epithelial cells. We extracted those cells and ran them through several DNA databases. The cells belonged to Heather Taffet.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Nothing further, your honor.
JUDGE DUFREY: Your witness, Ms. Taffet.
HEATHER TAFFET: It seems that you have neglected to include a sample of the evidence that I could have tested independently.
CAM: Since there were so few cells in the mite, the testing destroyed the sample, but the procedures and results are all contained in our documentation.
HEATHER TAFFET: Let me get this right. I have access to your notes, but I can't examine the actual evidence because you destroyed it?
CAROLINE JULIAN: Your Honor, in California versus Trombetta, the Supreme Court ruled that the prosecution could destroy a sample to test for DNA because there was no bad faith.
HEATHER TAFFET: Bad faith? The motives of every single person at the Jeffersonian are suspect and now their only physical evidence is gone. Ff it existed at all.
CAROLINE JULIAN: I've just about had it with your snide, unsubstantiated allegations.
HEATHER TAFFET: As have I.
JUDGE DUFREY: That's enough, Ms. Julian.
HEATHER TAFFET: Your Honor, I would like to file a motion to have this unverifiable DNA evidence dismissed.
JUDGE DUFREY: Protocol has been followed, Ms. Taffet. It's up to the jury to decide how the evidence will figure in the outcome of this case. Your motion is denied.
(Cut to: Founding Fathers - Booth is bringing drinks over to Brennan - who is sitting at a table already.)
BOOTH: Did you see Taffet's face? She was completely blindsided. Okay, Caroline's closing...it's going to k*ll. Alright, so here we go. (they raise their glasses and toast) That's it, huh? (Booth looks at Brennan. She doesn't look happy) Are you okay, Bones? Your team just nailed Taffet.
BRENNAN: I'm just tired.
BOOTH: Yeah. Yeah. It's been - it's been a tough case.
BRENNAN: It's not just the case. I'm tired of...of all of it. I'm tired of dealing with m*rder and v*ctim and sadness and pain.
BOOTH: Well, Bones, that's what we do. Alright? We catch the bad people and we make the world a better place.
BRENNAN: No, Booth. That's what you do and somehow I got caught up into it.
BOOTH: Wait a sec. Hold on. You were dealing with dead people long before we got together.
BRENNAN: As a researcher, an anthropologist. That's how I can make the world a better place.
BOOTH: And you do. Come on. You make the world a great place. Hey. Cheers to that, alright? You're just anxious. Alright? And tomorrow, when we have won, everything will be perfect. It'll be fine.
(He looks at her, thinking that this time, he may be wrong. Maybe everything won't be perfect - since it hasn't been for a while.)
(Cut to: Courthouse - Courtroom. Caroline Julian and Heather Taffet are presenting their closing arguments.)
CAROLINE JULIAN: We are here to seek justice for this 10 year old boy who was kidnapped, brutally b*at and buried alive by Heather Taffet. Taffet was seen where this child was abducted. She matches the size of the assailant. She's left-handed. Her voice was discovered on the ransom tapes.
HEATHER TAFFET: It all sounds very reasonable, doesn't it? These so-called facts were compiled by people who themselves were v*ctim of a vicious criminal who has not yet been caught. They need a scapegoat.
CAROLINE JULIAN: But only Heather Taffet could have the DNA that was found in this child's mouth. That evidence was delivered to us in death by this brave boy.
HEATHER TAFFET: And yet, the only people who saw that dust mite, the only people who touched the alleged epithelial cells were two kidnap v*ctim! One a known conspiracy theorist, the other a traumatized anthropologist who's currently being treated by a psychologist. And Dr. Saroyan, who couldn't perform her job without destroying the evidence, conveniently preventing me from mounting a defense.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Because she has no defense, except slandering these experts. They have told you what Heather Taffet did to that boy.
HEATHER TAFFET: The law is clear. You cannot convict a person based on innuendo or groundless accusations. I weep for that boy. No child should suffer like that and whoever did this...
CAROLINE JULIAN: ...should never be allowed to walk among decent people again. For that boy, for justice, you must return a verdict of...
HEATHER TAFFET: Not guilty. Because it's clear that I am a scapegoat. I am innocent. Thank you.
(Cut to: Courthouse - Hallway. Everyone is gathered, waiting for the verdict to come back)
BOOTH: What'd I tell you, huh? Caroline nailed it in there.
HODGINS: Taffet was pretty convincing in there, too.
BOOTH: You know what, Hodgins? You ever see the bright side in things?
HODGINS: You know what, Booth? You're right. 'cause no matter what happens in there, I've got Angela.
ANGELA: Hodgins.
HODGINS: It's okay. I don't care, Angie. Look, Taffet's not going to make the rules anymore. I want our friends to know. I want everybody to know. Okay. Angela and I are married.
BRENNAN: What?
CAM: Ohh...
BOOTH: Hey, look at that, huh?
BRENNAN: (hugging Angela) When, Ang?
ANGELA: In jail. Hodgins wanted to wait until (Brennan hugs Hodgins) this was over so everybody could be happy for us.
BRENNAN: This isn't another pregnancy scare, is it?
ANGELA: No. No, this is - this is love.
(Booth and Brennan look at each other)
SWEETS: So, why were you hiding this from us?
HODGINS: Ah, I was having trouble dealing with things because of the trial. Then I thought...screw it.
CAROLINE JULIAN: The jury's back.
(Cut to: Courthouse - Courtroom. Everyone is seated, waiting for the verdict to be read.)
JUDGE DUFREY: The defendant will rise for the reading of the verdict. In count one, the kidnapping of Terrence Gilroy, the jury finds the defendant, Heather Taffet, guilty. (everyone starts to mutter) Order, or I will clear the court. In count two, the m*rder of Terrence Gilroy, the jury finds the defendant...Guilty. (Everyone stands up and cheers) The defendant is remanded into custody until sentencing. We are adjourned.
(Brennan and Booth hug, then she looks over toward Taffet.)
HEATHER TAFFET: (to Brennan) This isn't over.
(Brennan looks back at her, worried.)
(Cut to: Founding Fathers - The gang is all there, having drinks to celebrate their victory.)
MAX: I was out of town for a couple of days. Well, I knew Tempe had everything under control. She didn't need me.
BRENNAN: Uh-huh.
BOOTH: Alright, let's just raise our glasses here. To the squints, okay? Come on.
CAM: To Booth.
BRENNAN: And Caroline.
EVERYONE: Hear, hear. Hear, hear.
SWEETS: You know, I never doubted any of you- not for a minute.
BOOTH: Where'd you come from? Huh?
HODGINS: Oh, come on.
CAROLINE JULIAN: Oh, please.
BOOTH: Okay, let's not forget the happy couple (he throws confetti at Angela & Hodgins) over here.
BRENNAN: Yes, best wishes for a successful blending of familial obligations as well as monetary and property consolidation. What?
(Cut to: Outside Founding Fathers. Everyone is leaving and throwing confetti at Hodgins and Angela.
CAM: Congratulations!
(Hodgins, Angela, Cam and Sweets walk away, celebrating, leaving Brennan and her dad standing on the sidewalk.)
MAX: I guess I'll go home.
BRENNAN: A real bed is probably going to feel good.
MAX: I'm sorry that I, uh... that I doubted you.
BRENNAN: Sweets would say that subconsciously you wanted Booth to catch you so you and I wouldn't have to be separated again.
(Max hugs Brennan)
MAX: Smart guy, that Sweets. I love you, honey.
(Booth comes out of Founding Fathers and joins them)
BOOTH: Thanks for leaving me with the bill again. That's nice of you.
MAX: Your fault, Booth. My wallet got stolen in jail.
BOOTH: Yeah.
MAX: Bye.
(He walks away, leaving Booth & Brennan on the sidewalk, alone)
BOOTH: Can't believe they actually got hitched.
BRENNAN: I know.
(They watch as their friends disappear around the corner at the end of the street.)
I have this sense that everything's changing, Booth.
BOOTH: Well, not everything. Look, we're still partners. Right? And-and Taffet. She's-she's put away. I mean, you're feeling good about that, right?
BRENNAN: You almost died, Booth. That can happen again. What if, next time, I can't get to you?
BOOTH: It's not going to happen again.
BRENNAN: I envy your ability to substitute optimism for reality.
BOOTH: You know what? Maybe you just need to take some time off. Go to a beach. Lay in the sun.
BRENNAN: I might need more than a little time.
BOOTH: Don't make any decisions about your future right now.
BRENNAN: I'm just saying...
BOOTH: You know when a dentist gives you anesthetic and tells you not to operate any heavy machinery or make any important decisions within 24 hours? Alright, this case was bigger than a root canal. Come on, let's just go back inside and have one more drink. Come on. Just one.
(He reaches for her hand but she pulls away and goes to hail a cab.)
BRENNAN: No. I'm tired, Booth. I-I-I'm going to go home.
BOOTH: Alright. Come on. Let's-we'll get you in the cab. (the cab pulls up) I know, it's-it's been a long, long day. Alright, get in there, alright? (she gets into the cab) Hey. I'll see you tomorrow, alright?
(She doesn't respond. He closes the door and watches as the taxi drives away. She turns around and looks at him. It's like deja vu. They're back at the beginning.)
END.
